{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}}
{\info
{\author Scott Dow}}\vieww37900\viewh17900\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 Episode 1 \'96 Mental Architecture \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \'93Leadership\'94, is the \'93transfer of thought\'94, which happens when people adopt your \'93values\'94, \'93beliefs\'94, \'93attitudes\'94, and \'93goals\'94. Think of this as your team\'92s \'93mental architecture\'94. \
We know that, \'93thoughts\'94 influence \'93emotions\'94, and that \'93emotions\'94, influence \'93behavior\'94. \
Whatever people \'93think\'94, influences how they \'93feel\'94, and whatever they \'93feel\'94, determines what they \'93do\'94. \
The \'93mental architecture\'94 explains how people \'93view their job\'94, \'93deal with feedback\'94, and how they work with others. \
A \'93healthy\'94 mental architecture, will help people \'93stay engaged\'94 and \'93avoid burnout\'94; even during times of uncertainty and change. \
\'93Values\'94, are the \'93foundation\'94 of any mental architecture, and the most important things make up your \'93value system\'94. These include the things that lead to organizational, team, and individual success. \
This \'93value system\'94 will influence your team\'92s \'93focus\'94, \'93priorities\'94 and \'93choices\'94, so the system needs to be \'93clearly defined\'94, \'93fully explained\'94, and \'93constantly reinforced\'94. \
The \'93mental architecture\'94, includes \'93beliefs\'94, \'93attitudes\'94, and \'93goals\'94; which influence how people \'93view change\'94 and \'93deal with setbacks\'94. \
Here are 5-ways to install your \'93mental architecture\'94 - \
1.) \'93Live your values\'94, because \'93actions speak louder than words\'94. \
2.) \'93Be consistent\'94, because \'93mixed messages\'94 are confusing, and create doubt. \
3.) Be \'93redundant\'94, because \'93repetitive thoughts\'94 are more believable. \
4.) Use role-models, because they\'92re the \'93thought leaders\'94 you want others to follow. \
5.) Don\'92t make exceptions, because you compromise your values, beliefs, attitudes and goals. \
Your team\'92s mental architecture is like good software, because it\'92s always being refined and improved. Updates should be common, and you need to fix any bugs in the system. \
A good mental architecture is open-minded, and it adapts over time. It\'92s inclusive and collaborative. So take input from your team, and incorporate their feedback as much as possible. That\'92s a good way to make your thinking - \'93their thinking\'94. \
Thoughts and emotions are contagious, and that\'92s why rumors and gossip travel so fast. In times of uncertainty, people begin to question their values, beliefs, attitudes and goals. \
Your mental architecture, becomes your coaching platform. When people struggle, you want to understand how they\'92re thinking about the problem. \
Don\'92t solve the problem for them. Just help them apply a healthy mental architecture, by reinforcing the right values, beliefs, attitudes and goals. \
A good mental architecture becomes your \'93culture\'94. When people share the same \'93values\'94, \'93beliefs\'94, \'93attitudes\'94 and \'93goals\'94, they \'93think\'94, \'93feel\'94 and \'93do\'94 things as a \'93team\'94, and that\'92s what \'93culture\'94 is. \
So remember, \'93leadership\'94 is the transfer of thought. And a team\'92s morale, engagement and performance, are a reflection of the mental architecture their \'93thought leader\'94 has enabled.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 2 \'96 Intentional Leadership \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 You're the boss. So you're a manager and a leader, and those are two different things. You manage things, but you lead people. You manage things like schedules, budgets, and forecasts. And all you need is a laptop and software. Schedules, budgets, and forecasts are work products that you produce. They're your management tasks.\
Leadership is different. You're influencing the work product of others. And that's a whole different kind of challenge. You can't just connect with the laptop and software. You have to connect with their hearts and minds. It's hard. You have to be intentional about leadership because these management tasks keep getting in the way.\
Management tasks have triggers and deadlines. You forecast monthly, you submit reports weekly and yet manage schedules daily. And most of these management tasks are requested or go right to your boss, so they come first. The other thing about management routines is that they breed meetings: planning meetings, budget meetings, forecast meetings.\
When you add up all the time you spend on management tasks and management meetings, there's not much time left for leadership duties. That's why you have to be intentional. And there are three ways you can be an intentional leader, three strategies. You can hack management routines. You can grow leadership habits or you can multiply leadership habits. And I want to explain each.\
You have management routines because they're already hardwired into your week. Let's say you get updates from employees weekly, and you use those updates to plan, schedule, and forecast. You can hack that management routine with one little leadership habit. And here's an example, maybe you use the end of the discussion to do a wellness check. Just check on how the employee is doing.\
That's an example of hacking management routines. Try it with one employee, and if it works for you, implement that same hack with every one of your employees. And that's an example of how you grow a habit. Once you've grown the habit, you can multiply the habit. And here's an example. You rotate your leadership habits weekly.\
Let's go back to that same hack where you're having your weekly update. Maybe week one of your weekly update with your employee, you do a wellness check. Week two, you solicit or give feedback. Week three, you engage in coaching. And week four, you set aside to focus solely on the employee's developmental action plan.\
So these are three strategies for being an intentional leader: hacking an existing management routine, growing your leadership habits, and then multiplying those habits. Remember, management and leadership are two different concepts and they're sibling rivals.\
They're sibling rivals because they're competing for your limited attention. You have to be intentional about leadership habits or you're going to spend all your time running from management task to management task. It might make you an effective manager but you'll be a shitty leader and that's not what we're after.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 3 \'96 Jumping To Conclusions \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 If you tend to jump to conclusions, remember this story about a \'93village\'94, a \'93young boy\'94, and a \'93Zen master\'94. \
When the boy turns 14, his father buys him a horse, and everyone in the village says, "Isn't that wonderful? The boy got a horse." But the Zen Master says, "We'll see."\
A year later, the boy gets thrown from the horse and breaks his leg very, very badly. And the villagers say, "Isn't that horrible? Now the boy will be crippled." But the Zen Master says, "We'll see."\
Then the village goes to war, and many of their young men are killed in battle. But the boy couldn\'92t go because of his crippled leg. The villagers said, "Isn't that wonderful? The boy will be spared!\'92 But the Zen Master says, "We'll see."\
We're like the villagers, because we're quick to judge and label things as \'93good\'94 or \'93bad\'94. We tell ourselves that things happen for a reason, but they don\'92t! You need to think like the Zen Master.\
The Zen Master doesn't judge and doesn't try to explain the unexplainable. Only time will tell. Like the Zen Master said, "We'll see."\
History is written after the fact. It's not captured in the moment. But when we jump to conclusions, we're writing history before it even happens. We're basing our thoughts, our emotions, and future behaviors on limited information and understanding. That's why we overreact, and get ourselves worked up.\
The Zen Master stays neutral and accepts \'93what is\'94, without judgment. They focus on the present moment, the facts at hand, and things within their immediate control. And if you can do the same, you'll avoid the emotional rollercoaster, needless worry, and stress that leads to burnout. And you can also help others do the same. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 4 \'96 How To Practice \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 To be an effective leader, you've got to practice. Leaders aren't born, they're made. Studies show that leadership success is 30% genetic and 70% learned. Effective practice happens outside your comfort zone. And while you're getting real work done, the best way to learn is by doing. And it's going to take some trial and error.\
So how do you practice? It takes clear focus, timely feedback, and specific practice goals. You want to focus on the things that don't come naturally, things that are outside your comfort zone. Don't practice too many things at once and keep your focus narrow. Then find ya a role model, someone you can watch doing the things that you want to be able to do and learn from their experience.\
A good role model helps you create a mental picture of what good looks like. A good coach can do the same thing. But you're not always going to have access to an experienced coach. Then you need a practice partner. Someone that can give you timely feedback. It can be a boss co-worker or an employee. But here's the key they've got to know what you're working on and be willing to give you honest feedback.\
Then set your practice goals. Practice goals aren't targets for improvement. They're targets you've set for practice. When are you going to practice? How often? And what feedback are you looking for?\
Malcolm Gladwell wrote a book called Outliers. In it, he claimed that you needed 10,000 hours of intensive practice to master anything. But here's the good news that's all been disproven. There's no science that backs up his claim. But here's what the science does say: purposeful practice, deliberate practice, the very intentional process of practicing with clear focus, timely feedback, and practice goals does work. That practice while doing through trial and error does work. That the constant effort applied outside your comfort zone does work. So develop your plan and get started. It won't take 10,000 hours, but it does take an ongoing commitment. And remember this, it's not what you know, it's what you can do that's going to define you as a leader.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 5 \'96 Followership \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Why do people follow the leader? \
The answer might surprise you. But before I tell you what it is, I have another question.\
Are leaders \'93born\'94 or \'93made\'94?\
If you think leaders have to be \'93outgoing\'94, \'93charismatic\'94, \'93confident\'94, and \'93assertive\'94, you probably think that leaders are \'93born\'94. But they\'92re \'93not\'94. \
These are personality traits that can be useful to a leader, but they\'92re not required. \
In fact, recent studies show that leadership success is 30% genetic and 70% learned.\
So back to my initial question - Why do people follow the leader?\
The Gallup organization polled 10,000 followers and asked them what they needed from a leader. And there were four things: trust, compassion, stability and hope.\
And guess what? Any leader can learn how to develop those feelings in others.\
Trust comes with honesty\
Compassion comes from empathy\
Stability comes with consistency, and\
Hope comes with optimism \
And all these traits can be developed. \
You can influence people with trust, compassion, stability and hope. \
You don't have to be liked, you don't have to be popular, and you don't have to be charismatic.\
You've got to be \'93honest\'94, \'93empathetic\'94, \'93consistent\'94 and \'93optimistic\'94. And when you are, people are going to follow your lead!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 6 \'96 Relaxation \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 One of the most important leadership, skills may surprise you, but this skill is the key to unlocking all the other important leadership skills like: \'93planning\'94, \'93problem-solving\'94, and \'93decision-making\'94.\
This skill makes you a better \'93innovator\'94, \'93communicator\'94, and \'93motivator\'94. And it's the path to becoming more \'93mindful\'94, \'93empathetic\'94 and \'93grateful\'94.\
So what is this skill?\
It's \'93relaxation\'94.\
\'93Relaxation\'94 is the key to \'93facing uncertainty\'94, \'93managing stress\'94, and \'93avoiding burnout\'94.\
If you can't relax, you're going to \'93think emotionally\'94, \'93act impulsively\'94, and sabotage yourself. But it's hard, because there's this misguided notion that relaxation is a \'93nice-to-have\'94 and not a \'93have-to-have\'94. It's viewed as a luxury of success, and not one of the \'93keys\'94 to success.\
But consider this...\
There's a psychological principle called \'93the law of reverse effort\'94, which says that sometimes, \'93less\'94 is \'93more\'94. And that's because some things can't be fixed with more effort. In fact, there are times when more effort actually becomes counterproductive!\
This principle gives you all the permission and scientific proof you need to view relaxation as an important part of your leadership toolbox. \
It doesn't discount the value of hard work. In fact, it assumes hard work to be your natural response to challenging times.\
But the harder you work, the more important it is to relax. Because if you don't take a step back, distance yourself, and reflect on the situation, you're going to miss things.\
Remember, a relaxed mind is more powerful and infinitely more productive, than a mind that's stressed, emotional and impulsive. \
Relaxation is needed the most when you're in the heat-of-battle. It calms your nerves, opens your mind and heightens your senses.\
Hard work and relaxation are opposing forces. They're the yin and the yang of leadership and life. \
The British philosopher Alan Watts said that \'93muddy water is best cleared by leaving it alone.\'94 And he's right.\
Here's another way to think about it. Racecar drivers maintain control at maximum speed by easing off the gas and tapping their brakes as they head into turns; then they accelerate their way out of-the-turn.\
Business is full of twists and turns, too. And if you're always running at full throttle, you're going to crash. So relax, especially in the heat of battle, and especially when your throttle has been running full out.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 7 \'96 The Complete Leader \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A complete leader can deliver results, develop people, and create a positive work environment. Now, they're not altruistic, they're just pragmatic. They know if they deliver results, but their people stall out, those results won't last. And if their people grow, but the results don't come, they won't last. And if they get results in a toxic work environment, their people won't last.\
Anyone can be a complete leader, but it takes very deliberate practice. There are three dimensions of leadership: you've got to focus on the personal, the interpersonal, and the group.\
The personal dimension is all about you. It's how you manage your thoughts and emotions, your stress and your well-being, your focus, and your decisions.\
The interpersonal dimension is all about relationships. It's how you communicate and motivate, how you listen and empathize and how you coach and teach.\
The group dimension is all about the team. It's how you build shared values, purpose and commitment. It's the standards you set, the culture you instill, and it's the legacy you're going to leave.\
Again, it's not altruistic, it's pragmatic. If you can't manage your well-being, you can't manage the well-being of others.\
Without healthy relationships. If people don't trust you, if they don't think you care about them, or if you're inconsistent, people won't follow you. And people are social creatures, social support and cohesion, a sense of belonging, a sense of community. It's the glue that binds us and sustains us through very difficult times. Complete leaders are always working on their self-talk, their relationships and their team. \
They're very intentional. To them, leadership is a practice, and like the practice of medicine or a legal practice, to them, leadership is an ongoing effort to hone their craft. Their standards are very high and their mission is very simple: deliver results, develop people, and create a positive work environment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 8 \'96 Illusion Of Choice \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Really effective leaders help people overcome what's called the illusion of choice. Younger generations tend to have a false sense of control because they've been raised to believe that they can do whatever they want. And that's just not the case.\
It's not the way life or business works. The fact is, if somebody wants to be really good, if they want to advance in the career, they don't have a lot of choices. It takes what it takes.\
In the illusion of choice, this false sense of control leads people down the wrong path. Marketing people know that if you give consumers too many choices, they tend to freeze. So, that's why they have limited product offerings. And a good leader is going to take the same approach. You want to offer choices, but you want to narrow their choices. The research shows that people feel better about any decision when they've had limited choices. And when they have too many choices they tend to regret whatever decision they made.\
So here's a good way to simplify people's choices...\
Focus on their goals. There's somebody somewhere that's doing what that person wants to do, and it's called a role model. And good role models are blueprints for success. They've made a series of choices that are worth that person considering. They're in the office more they take on extra tasks, they lean into discomfort. Whatever the case, that role model did what it took.\
In hindsight, it's not real complicated. If you want to be really good; if you want to excel, you don't have many choices because it's going to take what it takes. Success is a process, it's not an outcome, and the process is made up of a bunch of little daily choices that are really very limited.\
If you want to just get by. If average is okay, you've got all the choices in the world. But for high performers, the choice is usually pretty clear. So help your people manage their illusion of choice. They'll be happier and more successful, and so will you. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 9 \'96 Airplane Mode \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Your \'93mental battery\'94 is like a \'93smartphone's battery\'94. The more you use it, the more it needs recharged. \
Your phone battery is hard to miss because it's on every screen, but you've got to look for signs that your \'93mental battery\'94 is running low - \
You become moody or can't concentrate,\
You feel tired or emotional,\
You get stressed, or maybe you get one of those stress headaches.\
These are signs that your mental battery needs recharged.\
Your smartphone needs a battery to run, and we need mental energy, too. But we tend to worry more about our smartphone than our mental health, and that's why we burn out.\
The fastest way to charge your iPhone up is to turn it off and plug it in. But your mind doesn't turn off because it runs everything else, and that's why it keeps working even when you're asleep.\
But phones have an \'93airplane mode\'94. Your phone's still on, but you're disconnected from the Internet, so you don't use as much battery. And when you're charging your phone, it's the next best thing to turning it off.\
It's a good way to recharge your mental battery, too, because the internet burns a lot of mental energy. \'93Email\'94, \'93messaging\'94 and \'93texting\'94, the apps you use, your \'93news sites\'94 and \'93social media\'94...all drain your mental battery. \
Your concentration breaks, your mind races, and your thoughts collide. But when you go on \'93airplane mode\'94, you quiet your mind down and preserve both your phone's battery \'93and\'94 your mental battery.\
It doesn't take much. Fifteen-minutes in airplane mode helps your battery health and your mental health. And I don't care how busy you are or how important you are - you can work four, 15-minute breaks into your daily routine where you go on airplane mode. And when you do, there are things you can do to recharge your mental battery.\
Close your eyes for 15 minutes, meditate or take a walk.\
Mix it up. You can stretch your body out, play with the dog or have a healthy snack.\
These are good ways to recharge your mental battery while you're in airplane mode.\
This technique works because we're building on a habit you already have. You already manage your smartphone battery, and you can manage your mental battery at the very same time.\
Relaxation is a skill, and it takes practice. So make a plan, set some goals, monitor your progress, and hold yourself accountable.\
Remember, the more time you spend in airplane mode, the more mental battery you're going to have when you need it the most.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 10 \'96 The 90-Second Rule \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Every emotion has a shelf life. After a while, emotions are designed to fizzle out, which allows you to set the emotion aside and think rationally about what's going on. But this emotional shelf life isn't as long as you might think. \
I\'92ll tell you how long that shelf life is, but before I do, what do you think it is?\
Think about it.\
How long do you tend to stay \'93angry\'94, \'93sad\'94 or \'93worried\'94? \
It probably depends on the emotion. And it's funny how negative emotions tend to stick with you \'93longer\'94 than positive emotions, but they both have the same shelf life.\
You actually feel emotions because they trigger chemical reactions that cause physiological changes in your body. \
That's why your face turns red, you break out in a cold sweat or feel a pit in the bottom of your stomach. \
But that chemical reaction is designed to fizzle out so you don't have to live with the red face, cold sweat, or pit in your stomach. \
So what is the shelf life? \
It's \'9390-seconds\'94. That's it! \
And that's research out of Harvard done by a brain scientist by the name of \'93Jill Taylor\'94.\
It takes about 90-seconds for the chemical reaction to run its course. Then it's out of your system. \
So why do we stay in a bad mood? Or why do negative emotions last longer than 90-seconds? It's because we keep playing the situation over-and-over in our minds. And every time we do, it triggers a new chemical reaction. And we can repeat this emotional loop until we're emotionally exhausted.\
So here's what you do...\
For those first 90-seconds, there\'92s not much you can do about the chemical reaction that you\'92re feeling. So, you want to avoid making any \'93snap judgments\'94, \'93hasty decisions\'94 or \'93knee-jerk\'94 reactions. \
After a minute or two, you have a choice to make. You can keep recycling the same emotional thoughts, or you can choose better thoughts. \
Better thoughts aren\'92t necessarily \'93positive\'94 or overly optimistic; they\'92re \'93realistic\'94, \'93practical\'94 and \'93rational\'94. In other words, they\'92re \'93non-emotional\'94. They\'92re, \'93neutral\'94. \
The best way to calm down is to replace a negative, emotional thought with a more \'93neutral thought\'94, and after those first 90-seconds, the \'93choice\'94 is yours!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 11 \'96 Emotional Tagging \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Have you ever wondered why you make \'93emotional decisions\'94?\
The brain has this cool \'93filing system\'94, where every memory gets \'93tagged\'94 with an emotion, and that's why memories, are emotional. \
It's called "emotional tagging".\
Say you're deciding whether to give an underperforming employee, one last chance. So you think of a similar past experience, and then you begin to \'93feel\'94 that memory. \
If you have a lot of similar experiences, the \'93strongest emotional memory\'94 is going to stick out. \
If you gave the person in mind another chance, and they rose to the occasion and became a top performer, the memory is going to \'93feel good\'94. And that \'93feel-good memory\'94 is going to influence your gut instinct.\
It works the other way, too. \
Let's say you really like the employee in question, so you instinctively recall someone from your past that you \'93really liked\'94, but that employee \'93didn't\'94 rise to the occasion. In fact, they really let you down and made you look bad. Then your gut instinct is going to tell you to move on.\
So what do you do? You've got to give your \'93rational brain\'94 a chance to catch up with your \'93emotional brain\'94, because research shows that your emotional brain operates five times faster, than your rational brain. \
Remember, you can accept your emotional thoughts, but you don't have to act on them. Your emotional brain means well, and sometimes your gut instinct is spot on. But you've got to make a conscious effort to engage your more rational brain.\
Your gut instinct, is the opinion of your emotional brain, but you also need the opinion of your rational brain!\
It's like seeking feedback from other people. You want to hear out your emotional brain, but you also want to hear out what your rational brain has to say.\
So remember, memories are emotional, and they can lead to emotional decisions. \
Your emotional memories are going to be top-of-mind, so you have to take a step back. \
Emotional memories can cloud your judgment, but they don\'92t have to! \
The best kind of hindsight, is \'93non-emotional\'94, but you\'92ll have to separate the emotion from the memory! \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 12 \'96 The Adaptable Mindset \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Wayne Gretzky, the greatest hockey player of all time, said this: "I skate to where the puck is going, not where it's been." \
Great business leaders do the same thing, especially during a recession. \
You have to be one step ahead of your team, because that's the only way you can lead. You can\'92t lead from behind. You've got to be out front, and that's skating to where the puck is going. \
You have to accept, anticipate and adapt to change. If you don't, you're just skating to where the puck is...\
Gretzky understood that the game of hockey is fluid and it flows fast. So is business. \
To win the game, Gretzky knew he had to accept the game's flow. He couldn't control the officials, he couldn't control his opponent, and he couldn't control injuries.\
Gretzky had great anticipation, and here's why: He accepted the way things were, not the way he wanted them to be! \
And that allowed him to see what was about to happen before everyone else did.\
Then he adapted. He didn't wait for the puck to come his way. He went to where the puck was headed and created his own opportunities.\
Now, business is the same way. There are a lot of things outside of your control, but you can still skate to where the puck is going. \
Gretzky had what we call an 'adaptable mindset'. He accepted hockey is a fast, fluid, and competitive game. He knew that wherever the puck was, wasn't as important as where it was going.\
You've got to embrace the adaptable mindset, too. And that means you've got to accept, anticipate and adapt, just like Gretzky did.\
You've got to accept business as a fast, fluid, and ever-changing competition.\
You've got to accept surprises, setbacks, and things outside of your control.\
You've got to anticipate. Ask yourself, what are the challenges, advantages, and opportunities you can see taking shape? Then you've got to adapt.\
Forget about the past - that's where the puck was. Embrace the change, experiment, iterate, and adjust to the fast, fluid flow of this ever-changing business environment. That's how you skate to where the puck is going, accept, anticipate and adapt - and when you do that, your team is going to follow.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 13 \'96 Tacking & Change \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A sailboat can't sail directly into the wind, but sometimes, that's where it's got to go. And business is the same way, because every business faces headwinds.\
In sailing, \'93change\'94 is necessary, and it's called 'tacking'. When sailing against the wind, you have to avoid what's called the 'no sail zone'. That's when the sails go flat and there's no wind to propel you forward. The only wind is in your face. \
Business can feel the same way! \
So what does the sailboat captain do? They tack left and right, so they can set their sails to catch some crosswinds. They can't fight a headwind, but they can turn it into a crosswind and keep moving forward. \
They ride that crosswind as long as they can before they tack the opposite way (so they don't get too far off course.) \
When you're sailing upwind, you've got to \'93zig-zag\'94 your way forward. You're constantly changing course. You can't take a direct line, and business is the same way. \
You keep changing course, but you never lose sight of your goal. \
Tacking is a technical skill in sailing and in business, too. Because if you don't change, you're going to hit the business equivalent of a \'91no-sail zone\'92.\
You've got to think like a sailboat captain. You're going to face headwinds as much as you enjoy tailwinds, and change is the only way forward.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 14 \'96 Resistance To Change \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 If someone's resisting change, you have to do some re-zoning. They're holding on to the status quo because it's inside their comfort zone. And the change, whatever it is, is still \'93outside\'94 their comfort zone.\
Now, I'm assuming that you've already explained the change. You've explained the reason behind the change, and that you've provided all the planning, the resources, and training needed to make this change. This re-zoning plan is for people that are still resisting.\
Here's what you can do. You want to make the status quo \'93less comfortable\'94 and the change you want to make \'93more comfortable\'94.\
Here's how you do that. When people are resisting change, they're really just protesting the change. So acknowledge their protest. Let them know that you've heard them, but then you have to move on.\
Here's how - Set a deadline for the change and hold people accountable for that deadline, because deadlines, they can get really uncomfortable. And it's always more comfortable once a deadline is met!\
Next, celebrate the people that have already made the change, because it's \'93really uncomfortable\'94 to feel like you're falling behind. It's much more comfortable to feel like you're keeping pace, even leading the change.\
Then offer up more remedial assistance. Most people have all the skills they need to make the change, so the offer of remedial support becomes uncomfortable. It's a subtle way of questioning their abilities, and it's a subtle way of motivating.\
Now the person is going to want to prove that they can do it. You've given them the reason to act, and it\'92s no longer about their protest. \
Their colleagues have already made the change. They have a deadline looming, and now they have something to prove to you!\
Once they begin demonstrating the change in behavior, give \'93positive feedback\'94 and \'93positive reinforcement\'94. This will help them feel good about their progress. \
This is how you make the change \'93more comfortable\'94 than what the status quo is. And that's how you \'93re-zone\'94 their comfort zone.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 15 \'96 Perpetual Motion \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 If time stood still, we wouldn\'92t need leaders; but business operates in \'93perpetual motion\'94. And with each day that passes, this perpetual motion is pushing us further and further from today's norms (the status quo).\
It's like a bus ride. The bus makes occasional stops, but it never parks because the bus has a route, and a schedule, and a destination. So it stays in perpetual motion, and it doesn't wait on people.\
Business operates the same way! \
Getting people \'93on the bus\'94 is a common business saying. It was popularized by Jim Collins in the book \'93Good to Great\'94, where he talked about the importance of getting the right people 'on the bus'. But you've got to influence people to get on the bus, and that takes leadership.\
Leadership is all about moving people forward. It's helping them keep pace with the change that comes with perpetual motion.\
Here are some tips...\
Explain the bus ride to your people.\
We're in perpetual motion.\
Change is constant.\
Plans change! \
Products change! \
The organization changes! \
Our customers change! \
We've got to keep moving.\
The bus may slow, but it won't stop for long.\
Then celebrate the journey, the perpetual motion.\
Track your progress, the movement, and acknowledge the positive change.\
Don't focus on the destination.\
Use short-term objectives.\
Set milestones, set a schedule - \'93when's our next bus stop\'94?\
And keep celebrating the progress, the movement, the perpetual motion forward. \
Time keeps moving, and we're all passengers. But we've got to keep up. The bus doesn't wait and we can't stand in place.\
One of the most important things you can do as a leader, is to help your people embrace change. \
Everyone has an attitude about change, and attitudes are contagious! \
The more you talk about change, the better! The more you preview it, explain it, track it, and celebrate it - the better. \
You can use the \'93bus analogy\'94, or create your own! \
You want to help your people anticipate change and view it as a normal course of business. \
Remember - Time doesn\'92t stand still, and that\'92s why leaders are in such demand!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 16 - Self-Motivation \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Good managers can motivate others. \
But great managers teach people how to self-motivate! \
Motivation is not constant. It comes and it goes. It's like the ocean's tide. It rolls in, and it rolls back out. \
High motivation is like a big wave because it only happens under the right conditions. \
But what do big waves do? They crash on shore, and then the tide rolls back out. Motivation happens the very same way. \
Think of yourself as a surfing instructor who can teach people how to make the best out of their positive emotional waves. \
Sometimes they're going to catch really good waves and you want to help them ride that wave for all it's worth! \
But when the wave crashes, you have to help them paddle back out and get positioned for the next big motivational wave. \
It\'92s a simple approach!\
When they're riding a big motivational wave, encourage them to tackle the \'93more difficult tasks\'94. That\'92s how they can ride the wave for all it\'92s worth!\
When the wave crashes, encourage them to tackle \'93less difficult tasks\'94. That\'92s how they get positioned for their next motivational wave. \
The key is to make good use out of whatever motivation they have in that moment. \
This motivational technique is based on a model introduced by B. J. Fogg, a behavioral scientist at Stanford University. \
He explains how \'93behavior\'94, is based on three factors - \'93motivation\'94, \'93ability\'94, and a \'93prompt\'94. \
Leaders that can adjust their \'93prompts\'94 to their employee\'92s motivational state, get more productivity than those that don\'92t! \
The less difficult tasks take less of the employee\'92s \'93ability\'94, while still allowing them to be productive. And the more productive an employee feels, the sooner they can catch their next motivational wave. \
This is a simple way to motivate others, but it\'92s a good way to self-motivate, too! \
Many of your employees work independently. They have their own \'93to-do lists\'94, and can choose when to tackle their tougher tasks, so most of their \'93prompts\'94, come from within. \
Self-motivation is just an internal prompt that leverages whatever motivation you have in that moment. \
Remember, motivation ebbs and flows. But productivity is motivating!\
And you don\'92t need to be motivated to be productive. You just need to align your prompts with your motivation, and make the best use of your abilities in that moment. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 17 \'96 Mental Toughness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Your thoughts are always fighting for your attention, and the thoughts that you give your attention to, are going to influence how you feel, and what you do. \
Your thoughts fall into two broad categories; they\'92re either harmful or they\'92re helpful thoughts. \
Harmful thoughts are irrational, overly pessimistic, and demotivating. They cause needless stress (and worry), and cause us to act emotionally. \
Harmful thoughts lead to counter-productive behaviors. \
Helpful thoughts are rational, cautiously optimistic, and they're also motivating. They help us cope with stress, avoid needless worry, and to act non-emotionally. \
Helpful thoughts lead to productive and healthy behaviors. \
This fight for your attention is like a mental \'93boxing match\'94, between your \'93harmful\'94 and \'93helpful\'94 thoughts, where one of them has to win. \
Boxing matches have a referee and 3 judges. The referee manages the fighters, and the judges pick the winner. \
In this mental boxing match, you\'92re both the referee and the judge - because you have to manage your thoughts, and only you can pick the winners. \
Your emotions, happen faster than thoughts, so in the heat of the moment, you\'92ve got to stop and think about how you\'92re feeling. \
You have to ask yourself, \'93Am I experiencing harmful thoughts; or helpful thoughts\'94? \
Boxers try to block their opponent\'92s punches then respond with their own \'93counterpunch\'94, and you\'92ve got to do the same. You want to block the hurtful thoughts and counterpunch with more helpful thinking. \
And helpful thinking isn\'92t positive thinking. Overly optimistic, wishful thinking isn\'92t helpful. In fact, it can be hurtful, because it leads to counter-productive behaviors. \
Positive thinking doesn\'92t always work, but negative thinking does! Negative thinking \'93always leads\'94 to counter-productive behaviors!\
So don\'92t qualify your thoughts as either \'93negative\'94 or \'93positive\'94 - they\'92re either \'93hurtful\'94 or \'93helpful\'94. \
And remember, \'93mental toughness\'94 isn\'92t the ability to cope with harmful thoughts. It\'92s the ability to choose \'93helpful thoughts\'94, the thoughts that lead to productive behaviors. \
That's the mental toughness you can develop in yourself, and you can coach in others.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 18 \'96 Time Management \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Our former President Dwight D. Eisenhower developed a way to set priorities so he could manage his time more effectively. He thought of his priorities as being either 'important' or 'urgent'.\
\'93Important priorities\'94 are the tasks that help you achieve \'93your goals\'94, and\
\'93Urgent priorities\'94 are requested by others. \
He said, "I have two kinds of problems: the urgent and the important. The urgent are not important, and the important are never urgent." \
Let's say your boss asked for a report. That's an urgent priority because it relates to one of \'93their goals\'94. And it feels more urgent because there's some negative consequences if you don't handle it right away. \
So your to-do list is made up of \'93important\'94 and \'93urgent \'93priorities, and you have to decide which ones to tackle first.\
Sometimes your tasks are both urgent \'93and\'94 important. \
President Eisenhower created a decision-making matrix to guide his choices, and here's how it worked -\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If a priority was important \'93and\'94 urgent, he'd do it right away!\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If it was important but \'93not urgent\'94, he'd plan time to do it.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If it was not important but it was urgent, he'd try to \'93delegate the task\'94.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}And if it was not important and not urgent, he just wouldn't worry about it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 This is a really good way for you to think about your to-do list.\
A few coaching points to keep in mind. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}You have to focus to make good decisions. You can't think critically while you're multitasking, so you have to set aside \'93time\'94 to decide how you're going to \'93allocate your time\'94. A good time to do this is at the end of each day because you can reflect on that day's accomplishments, and that puts you in a better frame of mind.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Try to block 30-minutes each morning and afternoon for the important and urgent tasks that just pop up, because they always will! You want to handle the important and urgent stuff early in the day because you don't want them bleeding over until tomorrow. And \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Learn how to say 'no'. If something isn't important but it's urgent, it's probably coming from somebody else. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Steve Jobs said, "Focus is about learning how to say 'no'." \
It's hard to say 'no' to the boss, but urgent requests usually come from co-workers and your staff, and they often have false deadlines.\
Be clear as to what you can and can't get to, and don't overcommit. You want to be responsive, but you don't want to be held hostage by other people's deadlines.\
And remember this - \'93time management\'94 is a fallacy. You can\'92t manage time! There are only 24-hours in a day, and 60-minutes in an hour. You can\'92t move time around, you can only manage your focus.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 19 \'96 Imaginary Stress \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A lot of pressure comes from \'93imaginary stress\'94. That's when you're worried about a potential threat that \'93might happen\'94 in the future. \
The fact is, most stress is needless because a lot of the threats we worry about never become real! \
A recent study at Penn State University proved that only 8% of the things we worry about ever come true. \
If you're stressed about something that hasn't happened yet, you're wasting time. And it's funny, because one of the things managers stress about most, is not having enough time! \
Stress is the biggest time waster there is because we sit around and worry, and we don't deal with the present moment. You've got to stop that! \
Confront your stress head on. If you're stressed about an imaginary threat, then ask yourself this, "What can I do about it right now"?\
Chances are that imaginary threat is outside of your control. There's nothing you can do about it, and you're wasting your time worrying about it. \
If there is something you can do about it, then do it, because it's a good use of your time, but then move on. You've got other, more immediate things to deal with. \
The best stress buster I know is to make good use of your time, because when you waste time, it just creates more stress!\
When you focus on what's right in front of you, and you operate in the moment - in the present - you make the most of each day and you feel more in control. And when you feel more in control, you feel less stress! \
Remember, \'93imaginary stress\'94 is your biggest time suck; but it sneaks up on you, so look out for it, guard against it, and save yourself the needless worry.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 20 \'96 How To Communicate Unpopular Decisions \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Sometimes you have to implement unpopular decisions that you didn't make, that you don't like, that you don't fully understand and that you don't agree with. It's part of the job. \
The way you handle this situation says a lot about you as a leader. If you do it right, your people are going to trust you and respect you more. \
If you do it wrong, you risk losing your leadership clout. \
Here's what you don't do - \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Don't show frustration
\f1\b0 . It's an easy way to empathize, but it puts you on the same level as your employees, and you don't want to give away your \'93leadership clout\'94.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Don't complain.
\f1\b0  It's a tempting way to vent but it positions you as a victim and nobody wants to follow a victim!\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Don't assign blame
\f1\b0 . It's an easy way to take the heat off yourself, but it makes your job harder because it gives people a reason to resist you down the road.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Here's what you should do - \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Let your people vent. When teams are bitching together, they're bonding together. But don't join in! Just listen and acknowledge their concerns.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}But then your people need to hear what \'93you\'92re\'94 thinking. Always support the decision maker. You can be honest. You can disagree with the decision and still support the \'93decision maker\'94 and the decision-making process.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Encourage your people to assume \'93positive intent\'94, and remind them that \'93unpopular decisions\'94, often \'93age well\'94. Only time will tell! \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Focus on what you know, and don't fret about the things you don't know. Avoid making assumptions because they're often wrong and lead to needless worry.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The group has shared their concerns. Now\'92s the time to focus them on \'93baby steps\'94. What are the first few things that the group can do \'93now\'94, to begin implementing (or at least preparing to implement) the decision.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Remember, you\'92re not seeking their \'93approval\'94, you\'92re seeking the commitment to move forward. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Keep the lines of communication open, fill in the blanks when you can, and stay positive. Your people are going to take their emotional cues from you.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 You can acknowledge that the decision is unpopular, that the information is incomplete and that the change is going to be hard. But if people see you rise to the occasion, they will too.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 21 \'96 Fail Fast & Fix Fast \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 In a recession, things have to change fast. But change takes a lot of trial-and-error. So you want to \'93fail fast\'94, and \'93fix fast\'94. \
The path to progress is littered with failure. That's why trial-and-error is a sign of progress! But here's the problem: In a recession, no one wants the blame. So they play it safe. They're looking for a perfect answer. But in an economic crisis, there are no perfect answers. There are just the best answers at that time.\
When executives panic, they freeze. It's called 'analysis paralysis'. They procrastinate and wait things out. Now, I'm not suggesting that you shouldn't be very analytical, and I'm not saying that you shouldn't be a careful planner. But I am saying that the sooner you can act, the sooner you're going to figure out what works, and what doesn't. When you \'93fail fast and fix fast\'94, you're making daily progress. \'93Incremental progress\'94 is the result of failing fast and fixing fast.\
In the military, they have a saying - 'shoot, move and communicate'. The business equivalent is 'act, adjust and communicate'. You don't want to act on your emotions. You want to act rationally, but don't over analyze.\
Carpenters have a saying: 'measure twice and cut once', but companies tend to measure three, four, five times, and then they try to reach consensus. \
In a financial crisis, 'consensus' is really hard to reach because everyone's hedging their bets.\
When you take action, you actually enable more meaningful analysis and planning. You see what works and what doesn't and you can test out your theories. \
Now you can start making adjustments and fix things fast. Just fix the things that didn't work and factor those learnings into your ongoing analysis. Keep analyzing, but analyze \'93action\'94. Don't model theory. Don't get \'93analysis paralysis\'94.\
Now communicate! Communicate up, down and across the organization. What's working? what's not working, what's the plan now? \
People are looking for direction and in the absence of direction, they're going to scatter in different directions. \
So 'act', 'adjust', and 'communicate'. And people will focus their priorities. Those priorities become clear, processes improve, and progress becomes much more evident. \
So act, adjust, and communicate. And the inevitable trial-and-error that accompanies all change will be more manageable, more motivating, and more timely.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 22 \'96 How To Give Bad News \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Nobody likes to give bad news, but it's part of the job.\
People don't get promoted, they don't get a pay increase, and sometimes they even get fired, and you get to be the messenger. It\'92s a very uncomfortable part of a manager\'92s job. So what do we do? We try to make it less painful, and when we do, we make things worse!\
Here's what you don't want to do - \
Don't beat around the bush, because people feel ambushed and manipulated when you do.\
Don't \'93sugarcoat\'94, because that only creates confusion.\
And don\'92t try to soften the blow, because you create false hope.\
Don't editorialize, because all it does is promote speculation.\
Don\'92t fill the silence, because they will need uninterrupted time to process. \
And don\'92t apologize, because it suggests that someone has done something wrong.\
Don't negotiate, either, because it encourages debate.\
Don't make it about you, because that's really insensitive.\
And don\'92t make promises that you can\'92t keep! \
Here's what you should do -\
Prepare in advance, and this includes picking the right time and place to deliver the news. (Earlier in the day is better, when people have the emotional and mental energy needed to process the news.) \
Get to the point; tell people upfront that you've got \'93bad news\'94.\
Focus on the facts; give the information they need to know as succinctly as possible.\
Give people time to process; because you have to let the news set in.\
Listen to them; encourage them to \'93think\'94 and process their emotions \'93out loud\'94.\
Expect an initial, emotional reaction, because people process their \'93feelings\'94 before their thoughts. \
Empathize; go ahead and acknowledge how they're feeling.\
Answer their questions, but don't speculate. If you \'93don't know\'94, you \'93don't know\'94.\
Be compassionate. You can show sympathy and concerns for their wellbeing, but you have to support the decision, and you have to support the \'93decision maker\'94.\
You can practice giving bad news by mentally rehearsing the conversation. The more you can visualize yourself, the setting, and their reactions, the better. \
With practice and experience, you\'92ll be able to deliver bad news more effectively. But unlike the other skills you develop, you\'92ll never enjoy it. \
It\'92s stressful! And it\'92s easy to lose sleep over. But remember this - you care! And because you care, you practice and prepare to deliver the message in the most effective and compassionate way possible. And when you do, you\'92re the best person to be delivering the news!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 23 \'96 Mental Time Travel\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 You're paid to manage the day-to-day, and the biggest threats to daily progress are what happened in the past, and what \'93might\'94 happen in the future. \
The past and the future are the enemies of today! \
When you cling to the past, or worry about the future, you waste today! And when you lead through a recession, you have no time to waste.\
'Disgust', 'frustration', and 'anger' are emotions about \'93past events\'94.\
'Uncertainty', 'anxiety', and 'doubt' our emotions about \'93future events\'94.\
These negative emotions are distracting, soul sucking and demotivating. They are time wasters, confidence killers and excuse makers.\
As a manager, you have to avoid them, and you have to help your team avoid them, too. We always get the same two questions:\
1. Don't we have to learn from the past? and\
2. Don't we have to plan for the future?\
And the answer is 'yes\'92! But most of you listening to this episode are \'93front-line\'94 and \'93middle-managers\'94. \
You're implementers, executers and operators. You're paid to keep customers happy, to keep projects on track and the trains running on time. \
Most strategic decisions are made above your current pay grade. Now, that doesn't mean you \'93shouldn't think strategically\'94, but you need to focus on the strategic execution \'93of today's plan\'94!\
Your executive team has analysts, strategists, and consultants that study the past and worry about the future. That's their role, not yours! \
Your role is to get the very best out of your team, day-in and day-out. That's your mission, and your team can't do it if they're stuck in the past or worried about the future. \
Yes, you should learn from the past, but the best learning opportunities are captured in real time. So focus on day-to-day learning.\
And yes, you should plan for the future. But don't worry about \'93potential threats\'94. Deal with the more likely threats that are right in front of you. \
Mental time travel is both a gift and a curse. We can learn from the past and plan for the future, and that's the gift! But we can also get \'93stuck in the past\'94 and fixate on the most unlikely of threats, that never are going to happen. And then we procrastinate, make excuses and take a wait-and-see attitude! And all the while, \'93life and the business at hand\'94 just passes us by. \
Remember, most negative emotions are triggered by things you can't control. You can't change the past and you can't control the future, but you can do something about today!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 24 \'96 How To Coach The Adaptable Mindset \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Charles Darwin said that it's not the \'93strongest of species\'94 that survives, nor the \'93most intelligent\'94. It's the one that is \'93most adaptable to change".\
That's an evolutionary fact. It's a fact of life, and it's a fact of business, too. \
Adaptability is a skill; it's not a trait! \
There are certain personality traits that can help people adapt. Traits like courage, curiosity and openness. But just because someone is courageous, curious and open, doesn't mean that change comes easy for them!\
Adaptability requires a certain \'93belief system\'94 called the 'adaptable mindset'.\
The opposite of an adaptable mindset is a \'93fixed mindset\'94.\
It's a different belief system that believes that the work environment should be orderly and predictable;\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That changes need to be fully understood;\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That changes should be agreeable to them; and\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That change is an inconvenience that can be minimized, and\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}They believe that their growth potential is limited.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 The people that think this way, (and there are a lot of them), are going to struggle to adapt because everything they believe is wrong. \
So you've got to help them shift their thinking.\
The adaptable mindset thinks that - \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}The workplace is unpredictable;\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That only \'93hindsight\'94 will enable full understanding;\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That they can accept without agreeing;\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That change takes effort; and\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}That their growth potential (and their ability to adapt) is based on their effort, not their talent.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Here are some things you can do to help people with a \'93fixed mindset\'94:\
First, listen to them, because that's how you diagnose a \'93fixed mindset\'94.\
Then promote the \'93adaptable mindset\'94 as one of your core values. If it's important to you, they'll know what's expected.\
Next, pair them with a co-worker that has an adaptable mindset, so they can follow a good role model.\
Then do this: Ask them about the positive ways they've changed. What triggered that change? Did they have all the answers upfront? How much effort did it take? And how did they feel after? \
(This is a good way to remind people that they \'93are adaptable\'94 and it's a good way to trigger their adaptable mindset. They've done it before and they can do it again!)\
Then give lots of encouragement, recognize their effort and celebrate their progress! \
This will create a positive feedback loop that will fuel their adaptable mindset. \
Remember, mindsets are conditioned in us. They're coping mechanisms. Adaptable mindsets enable \'93healthy coping\'94. And fixed mindsets reflect \'93unhealthy coping\'94. \
So when you spot a fixed mindset, you've got to help them. You've got to help them cope in a healthier, more productive fashion.\
Everyone has the ability to adapt and grow. Sometimes you just need to remind people how, and that's what this coaching plan allows you to do!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 25 \'96 The Nudge Technique \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \'93Leadership\'94 is the process of influencing behavior, but an employee\'92s \'93behavior\'94 is a choice that they get to make. Not you! \
So your job as a leader is to create an environment where it\'92s easier for the employee to make good decisions. \
This is all the more important when you\'92re working with \'93remote\'94 or \'93hybrid\'94 employees that work independently. \
Nudges are a subtle way of influencing change. Instead of demanding change, you make the change easier. \
An effective 'nudge' is simple, small, realistic, and enlightening. That\'92s how you make the behavior you want more likely. \
If it\'92s not simple, it\'92s going to take too long.\
And if it\'92s not small, it\'92s going to take too much effort.\
If it\'92s not realistic, it\'92s easy to dismiss.\
And if it\'92s not enlightening, it won\'92t be memorable.\
There are different ways to \'93nudge your employees\'94. You can send a \'93simple\'94 reminder, make a \'93small\'94 request, set a \'93realistic\'94 expectation or provide an enlightening update. \
You can simplify your plans, focus on small baby steps, encourage honest and realistic feedback, or simply celebrate the progress being made. These are all ways to nudge people forward. \
A nudge isn\'92t a monetary reward or a negative consequence. It\'92s not a carrot or a stick! It\'92s a more subtle prompt that encourages the right behavior. \
Leaders that use the nudge technique are viewed as more collaborative and less dictatorial. \
But you have to practice! Your nudges have to be carefully planned out and customized to the individual. An effective nudge for one employee may not work for the rest of your team. \
If you keep your nudges simple, small, realistic and enlightening, people \'93will\'94 respond.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 26 \'96 The Law Of Substitution \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 You can\'92t just dismiss a negative thought. If something\'92s bothering you, it will keep gnawing away at you until you replace it with another thought. This is a psychological principle known as the \'93Law of Substitution\'94. \
Self-help experts tell you to think positive, and replace negative thoughts with positive thinking, but for most people that doesn\'92t work! \
For it to stick, the thought you\'92re trying to substitute has to be believable. And overly positive, wishful thinking takes a huge leap of faith\
that most people don\'92t have! \
So you want to replace a negative thought with a \'93rational thought\'94 because rational thoughts are easier to accept and much more productive. \
Negative thoughts are assumptions and conclusions \
that are very subjective.\
We think we can read people\'92s minds and see into the future but we can\'92t! \
Negative thoughts are emotional, and rational thoughts are logical. But emotional thoughts are produced much faster than rational thoughts, so you\'92ve got to be patient. \
Rational thoughts are objective. They\'92re factual, logical and non-emotional. \
They don\'92t lean negative or lean positive. They\'92re neutral! \
And when you replace a negative thought with a rational thought you can build on that rational thought with this simple question -\
\'93what is my best course forward?\'94 \
if you base that question on a negative thought, you will head in a negative direction. But when you base the question on rational thoughts, your behaviors head in a more productive AND positive direction. \
So don\'92t live with your negative thoughts; and don\'92t chase positive thinking! \
Replace the negativity with rational and neutral thinking. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 27 - Force Multipliers \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A \'93servant leader\'94 operates in a way that makes people \'93less dependent\'94 on their leadership, while a \'93hero leader\'94 operates in a way that makes people \'93more dependent\'94 on their leadership.\
Servant leaders are \'93force multipliers\'94, because they promote the independent thinking and the self-sufficiency that make people more productive. \
Hero leaders become \'93force-dividers\'94, because they create dependencies that slow things down and make people less productive.\
Think of it this way - when people are dependent on you or have to seek your advocacy, your approval, your endorsement, your agreement, your decisions, your mediation, your ideas or your solutions...you're slowing things down and people are less productive. You're being a 'force divider'. \
There are times where you need to step in. Where you need to be directive. But you want that to be the exception, and not the norm.\
Force multipliers serve their people by helping them grow and by pushing them outside their comfort zones.\
They design and communicate their value system, belief system and guiding principles. \
Then they set clear and unambiguous standards, and hold people accountable. \
They delegate authority and empower people with clear roles and responsibilities.\
They give stretch assignments and use feedback, role models, best practices, and trial and error to help their people learn while getting real work done.\
They hold people accountable, not just for their outcomes, but for their choices.\
And they view setbacks as learning opportunities.\
They create a safe space where people can be vulnerable and share their thoughts without the fear of being judged.\
They don't solve problems for people, but they coach problem solving skills. \
They don't give all the answers, but they ask the right questions. Questions that help people focus and think independently. \
They promote a 'team-first' mentality. \
They hire team players and they place a very high value on teamwork.\
They encourage collaborative learning, mentoring and always have their coaching hat on. \
They celebrate diversity of thought, encourage disagreements and constructive conflicts, and they discourage groupthink.\
They don't mediate disputes, but they facilitate alignment.\
These are the leadership behaviors of a 'force multiplier', and the leadership style of a \'93servant leader\'94.\
Remember, when you increase people's dependency on you, you're being a \'93force divider\'94. But when you reduce people's dependency on you, you're being a force multiplier!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 28 \'96 Demanding Employees \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Some employees can be very demanding, and when they're high performers, you might feel like you have to put up with their aggressive behavior. \
They demand your time and attention. They demand answers. They're impatient and judgmental. They're intrusive and persistent.\
They can be cynical and sarcastic. To them, the glass is always half-empty, and they complain a lot! \
They hold \'93you\'94 accountable, and they can be a real pain in the\'85.(well, you know!)\
Their demands can feel like attacks on you (and sometimes they are!), but their demands have nothing to do with you. They're demanding with everyone. \
These people are often self-centered and they lack empathy. They're on a mission, and they see those around them, including you, as a means to an end.\
This is a challenging personality type, and it\'92s hard to change. Their self-image is that of the under dog, and they have this \'93me against the world\'94 mentality. \
Believe it or not, it\'92s one of the ways they stay motivated. They\'92re not looking for you to meet all their demands, they just want you to acknowledge their plight! The key, is to acknowledge their demands, without encouraging their demands. \
Here's what you can do with demanding, high-performing employees.\
Don't take it personal because it has nothing to do with you. Don't expect them to change because they won't, and don't make promises you can't keep because they\'92il only come back to haunt you!\
Sometimes, we just want to make them go away. We say things like, "Let me look into it" or, "I'll get back to you." But when you do that, you're just giving them another chance to be demanding. \
When they make \'93unreasonable demands\'94, hold your ground, and explain what you \'93can do for them\'94. And don't apologize. When you do, you just encourage more aggressive behavior. \
Here's what you can say. "I understand what you're saying, and that's not possible. But here's what we can do." \
If they persist, don\'92t debate, just offer coaching direction and encouragement. It sounds like \'93This is what \'93I\'92d do\'94\'85and I\'92m confident that you can make this work!\'94 \
If they complain about you or give you feedback that's unreasonable, (again) don't debate with them. Your goal is to disarm them, and here\'92s what that might sound like. \'93I\'92m sorry that you feel that way, but I accept how you feel, and I do appreciate (and will consider) your feedback. Thank you.\'94\
Remember, though, that valid feedback can feel unreasonable. So make sure you do take a step back and consider their feedback. \
When they demand answers you don't have, acknowledge their uncertainty and focus them on their choices. Here's what that might sound like. "I don't know yet, but I'll let you know when I do. In the meantime, here\'92s what we do know. What's your best course of action?"\
Listen, you're going to have demanding employees, and some of them might be worth putting up with. But don't take it personally. Set your boundaries and anticipate their demands in advance. Don't debate and don't overcommit.\
The more you can mentally rehearse these interactions, the better. These people aren't going to change, but you can manage them on your terms, not theirs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 29 \'96 Resistance \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 In a recession, things are going to change. And change always meets resistance. \
Here's why: Your employees have four basic psychological needs. They need to obtain things, protect things, learn things, and fit in.\
These are the 4 psychological drives that influence human behavior. \
But when things change, the things they've obtained and learned over time are endangered.. \
And when things change, there's more to protect and new people they have to fit in with!\
Change creates \'93needy employees\'94 because they feel the need to...\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Get new things,\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Protect what they've got,\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Learn new things, and\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Fit in all over again.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 And that's why they resist! It can be overwhelming! \
There are two types of resistance: \'93active resistance\'94 and \'93passive resistance\'94.\
When people debate, make excuses and complain, they're \'93actively resisting\'94, but\
...some people are more \'93passive aggressive\'94. They don't debate, they don't make excuses, and they don't complain. They just disengage and take a wait-and-see attitude.\
A few things to keep in mind:\
The first thing is this: resistance builds momentum, so you've got to deal with it as soon as possible!\
The second thing is this: resistance is contagious, so you need to deal with your active resistors first.\
And the third thing is this: the best way to do it is with a little \'93psychological jiujitsu\'94.\
Remember, when people resist, it's because the psychological energy they\'92ve been using to obtain things, protect things, learn things, and fit in gets upended, so they fight change.\
In psychological jiujitsu, you take your opponent's psychological energy, one of those basic human drives, and you redirect it. \
You use all their negative psychological energy to your advantage, by simply leading it in a new direction. \
Here's how:\
Start by empathizing, and people will let their guards down. \
Then encourage their honest input. That's the equivalent of sticking your chin out, and inviting their blow. \
Now listen intently, because that's how you're going to hear their negative psychological energy. You're going to hear what's on their mind and influencing their concerns.\
They just want to get things, protect things, learn things, and fit in, but they don't know how! So you need to catch their blow and turn it in a more positive direction. That\'92s how jiujitsu works!\
Whatever the change is, you can help them see new ways to get what they want, protect what they value the most, learn what they need to, and fit in. That\'92s what good coaches do!\
If you fight their basic psychological needs, they'll resist even more and you'll prolong that battle.\
Now, I used a martial arts analogy, but this doesn't have to be a fight! In fact, this is a very positive way to coach people. \
You don\'92t need a black belt to be approachable, open, empathetic and listen! Just redirect their psychological energy in a more positive direction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 30 \'96 Burnout\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 The World Health Organization is worried about burnout, and you should be, too. They define burnout, as \'93chronic workplace stress that has not been successfully managed.\'94\
And research shows that 59% of American workers are experiencing at least moderate levels of burnout. \
Burnout isn\'92t over-work! \
These are some of the symptoms identified by the Mayo Clinic -\
Cynicism \
Irritability\
Impatience \
Dissatisfaction and\
Distraction\
Negative thinking \
and Sleeplessness \
This is how medical doctors diagnose burnout, but a Manager may misdiagnose these symptoms as a typical \'93bad attitude\'94. \
Burnout is a primary cause of employee disengagement, cross-functional conflict, and resistance to change. \
If someone's burning out, they don't need time off! In fact, time off can make things even worse, and here's why. \
Hard work doesn't cause burnout! The compounding effects of \'93stressful thoughts\'94 is what causes burnout, and a few days off won't cure stressful thinking. In fact, the time away often leads to even more stressful thinking.\
Burnout is a psychological condition and it's a coping mechanism. Your mind tries to protect you from prolonged exposure to stressful thinking by signaling to your body that it's exhausted, by encouraging you to disengage, and not care as much. It even triggers a cynical point of view.\
If someone is burning out, they need a safe space, a place where they can voice their stressful thoughts without fear of judgment or retribution. \
People need to talk out their stressful thoughts, and you're a good person to do that with because they report to you, they're accountable to you, and you can have a big impact on their \'93stress-relief valve\'94.\
You need people to open up. And to do that, they must trust you. And the only way they're going to trust you is if they think you care about them. You have to show a genuine, consistent interest in their well-being, and you start by being empathetic. Empathy encourages people to open up, and that's the only way you're going to find their stressful thoughts.\
Stressful thoughts are usually based on flawed assumptions. There\'92s a misconception, misperception or misunderstanding that\'92s causing their negative emotional reaction. But when people share their thoughts with you, these flawed assumptions are easy to spot and correct. \
Stressful thoughts multiply and begin to compound. One misunderstanding can lead to multiple negative assumptions, and people will keep recycling those negative thoughts over and over. \
You can help people replace these flawed, negative thoughts with more rational and useful thoughts, but it will take a heightened level of engagement with that employee. \
You\'92re not a therapist, and sometimes people need professional counseling. But as their boss, you can help people think about their job differently. \
If someone is burned out, they need more of you - not less. A little time off might be useful, but that won\'92t change their stressful thinking. \
Nor will pep-talks. Positive thinking and encouragement won\'92t fix their stressful thinking. If someone is burned out, they need help stabilizing to a more neutral, non-emotional mindset. \
When you\'92re non-judgmental - people will feel safe. \
When you empathize - they\'92ll open up.\
When you listen - you\'92ll hear flawed assumptions. \
Now you can open their stress release valve. \
Address their flawed assumptions, and help them downshift into a more neutral mindset. They don\'92t need positive thinking. They need a healthier way to think about their job, and that\'92s where you come in!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 31 \'96 Personal Standards \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 High achievers hold themselves accountable to higher \'93personal standards\'94. \
A personal standard is a personal \'93choice\'94, because you get to choose what you expect out of yourself. But here's the problem - A lot of people confuse 'standards' with 'desire'.\
Desire is just \'93hope\'94 with no accountability; and standards with no accountability, are just hollow intentions. \
Low achievers and high achievers have the same goals. \
They don\'92t set out to be low achievers, they just fail to hold themselves to higher standards. \
The world is full of mediocrity, big talk, missed opportunities, and unrealized dreams. But it doesn't have to be that way. \
The difference in outcomes isn't talent, and it's not luck. The x-factor...the difference-maker...is personal accountability. And without personal standards, you can't have personal accountability!\
When people think of standards, they tend to think about behaviors. But behind all behaviors, are thoughts and emotions. \
When you don't live up to your standards, it's because you talk yourself out of them. You didn't feel like it, so you gave yourself a pass. \
Now, no one's perfect, and you're not always going to live up to your standards. No one does! Especially if you set high standards for yourself. But high achievers give themselves fewer passes than low achievers do. \
So what's the secret? High achievers hold themselves accountable for their thoughts and their feelings.\
They make a very conscious effort to choose their best thoughts and to engage their more useful emotions. \
For high achievers, this isn't a trivial exercise. They're very intentional about their thinking. \
Here are 10 examples of 'intentional thinking', and I'm going to state them as standards. Standards you can adopt for yourself. \
Here we go. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I will routinely stop and think about what I'm thinking.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll quiet my mind, and avoid distracting thoughts.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll think of myself in the third person, and objectively distance myself from the emotions of the moment.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll hold myself accountable for the thoughts I choose.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll avoid mental time travel, and focus on the here and now.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'When I experience a negative emotion, I'll choose more useful thoughts.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll choose rational over emotional thoughts.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll be open-minded, and avoid rigid thinking.'\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll reflect on the choices I make', and\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}'I'll think compassionately about myself and others.'\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 These are 10-examples of \'93intentional thinking standards\'94. \
Standards are easy to contemplate and commit to, but they\'92re also easy to forget! \
If you\'92re serious about intentional thinking, pick 3 standards and write them down. But don\'92t stop there, schedule time to reflect on these standards, and that\'92s when you hold yourself accountable. \
Accountability is an ongoing process! And a standard doesn\'92t exist until it\'92s written down and revisited. When its written down, and revisited, it\'92s staring right back at you. There\'92s nowhere to run, and nowhere to hide. \
It\'92s just you, and the version of yourself you want to be! This is when you make the important choices that define your professional career and your personal life. \
This approach isn\'92t just designed to help you perform better, but it will help you \'93live happier\'94. And isn\'92t that the point?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 32 \'96 Leading Through A Recession \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 If you manage for long enough, you'll lead through a recession. And one's likely coming! But a recession is not the end of the world. \
Hewlett Packard started in the late 1930s. Microsoft in the 1970s and Uber in 2007, and these were all deep, painful recessions. \
A recession brings a lot of change, unpredictability and surprises; not to mention a lot of confusion, misreads and mixed messages.\
This is when the real leadership talent is going to thrive and advance in their careers. They always have, and always will!\
The US military calls this leadership challenge 'VUCA\'94. It's an acronym for "Volatility", "Uncertainty", "Complexity", and "Ambiguity". \
That's the post- Cold War world that military officers have been leading through, and it's the world business leaders are facing today. \
Expect the FED to continue raising interest rates, and the stock market to be very volatile. Companies will be much more cost conscious, which will lead to restructuring and reorganization.\
The stress on management teams will increase, but this is a huge opportunity!\
A high tide raises every ship, and a lot of companies have been enjoying the favorable market conditions. Warren Buffett said, "you don't know who's swimming naked until the tide goes out". Well, the tide is going out. So what should leaders do now?\
You should focus on three things. Focus on priorities, processes and progress. \
In a VUCA world, you don't focus on the month, the quarter or annual targets. You focus on what's right in front of you! You \'93win-the-day\'94 by focusing on immediate priorities, processes and progress. \
Your leadership style has to be more hands on; and I don't mean micromanaging. You can eliminate the clutter by clarifying \'93priorities\'94. You can focus on execution by simplifying your \'93processes\'94, and you can build momentum and confidence by focusing on \'93progress\'94. \
You can't live in the past and you can't worry about the future! You have to focus and lead through the moment at hand, and that's what 'winning the day' means. \
Remember, you can't control the world around you, but you're still \'93in control\'94. You can control what you choose to focus on - meaning your priorities (and your team's priorities). \
You can control your habits and routines, meaning your processes and your \'93team's processes\'94, and you define what success looks like.\
You can embrace the progress that you\'92ve made. You can focus on the next immediate milestone and not get overwhelmed by longer-term goals. \
In a VUCA world, longer-term goals provide direction, but daily process goals are going to fuel your success. \
The leaders and teams that \'93win each day\'94 and keep \'93stacking good days\'94, day after day - they're going to thrive in this recession, and they're going to come out of this VUCA world stronger than ever.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 33 \'96 Middle Management \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Did you know, that the highest rate of burnout occurs with middle-managers? In fact just last year, a record 43% of middle managers surveyed said they were burned out. \
Here\'92s what causes middle manager burnout, and how you can avoid it! \
Middle-management is a lot of give and take. You\'92re always giving or receiving \'93direction\'94, \'93feedback\'94 and \'93approval\'94. And that\'92s because you're playing two different roles - you're a boss and a subordinate. So you're bouncing from role-to-role, back-and-forth, all day long. \
And it creates this psychological tension that can really wear you down!\
It\'92s an uncomfortable situation, because you\'92re being asked to think like a leader, but act like a follower - or that\'92s how it can feel! It\'92s a mental disconnect that\'92s hard to reconcile. \
When you\'92re asked to fix a problem, but you don't have the authority - there's psychological tension. It seems like a mixed message, and its uncomfortable.\
The same thing happens when you have to share (and support) a decision that you don't agree with, and middle managers are always put in these situations. \
The stress comes when your thoughts don\'92t (or can\'92t) align with your actions. Psychologists refer to this as \'93cognitive dissonance\'94 \
The constant role reversal can be confusing. One minute you\'92re the boss. Then you\'92re a subordinate. It\'92s an identity crisis that many middle managers share. \
You want to keep your boss happy and your team to respect you. You get pressure from above and below. And this constant psychological tension creates chronic stress and that's how you burn out. \
When you feel frustration, disappointment and confusion, you\'92re experiencing this cognitive dissonance. \
So what can you do about it?\
To survive and thrive as a middle-manager, you have to develop a different mental architecture. Your values, beliefs, attitudes and goals have to align with the reality of middle-management. \
If you believe that you should agree with every decision, you're going to experience a lot of psychological tension. But once you accept that you're going to be asked to do things that you don't like (or don't agree with), there's going to be a lot less tension.\
There are certain things you have to accept, and they become your belief system.\
Thoughts like - \
\'93I won\'92t always have a say in important decisions\'94. \
\'93There will be a lot of decisions that I don\'92t agree with\'94. \
\'93I\'92ll be asked to deliver bad news\'94. And..\
\'93I don\'92t have all the authority I want (and neither does my boss!)\
This isn't a defeatist attitude, you\'92re just accepting reality. And once you embrace it, you can build a healthy value system around it. \
You should place a greater importance on problem solving, teamwork, facilitation and communication, because that\'92s how you bring value to both your boss and your employees. \
If you place a higher value on having authority and control, you\'92re focusing on the wrong things! \
The right attitude is open, curious and supportive. Good middle managers set their egos aside, and focus on the greater good. \
Your goal is simple - help your boss succeed, and help your team succeed! That\'92s how effective middle managers think. \
When you feel frustrated, disappointed or confused, you need to take a step back. You\'92re having a mental disconnect, but you don\'92t have to live with it. \
Remind yourself that a good middle-manager is always compromising, advocating, solving and supporting both their boss and their team. \
There will be many times when you\'92re asked to make the best out of imperfect situations. \
You may not have all the answers - and that\'92s okay.\
You may not agree - and that\'92s okay, too. \
It takes a certain mindset, but once you've got it - life gets a whole lot easier.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 34 \'96 Raising Expectations \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Now\'92s the time to raise expectations across the board. \
Remember, the best way to increase your \'93team's productivity\'94 is to improve everyone's productivity. \
It\'92s easy to over rely on your top performers, but your team is only as strong as its weakest link! \
You want to make your 'under-performers' - 'average\'92. Your 'average performers' - 'good\'92. And your 'good performers' - 'better'. So how do you do that? \
There's an old saying that 'no one rises to low expectations'. They never have and they won't now. \
18 months ago we were talking about the \'93great resignation\'94 and pundits were making the case against the \'93hustle mindset\'94. But things are different now. \
Companies are slower to hire. Some have frozen hiring and others are announcing layoffs, and people are starting to wake up a little. \
The job they took for granted, might now be the job they need. You've got a window of opportunity, but you've got to act now. \
Now is the time to raise the bar on everyone, and here's how you do it:\
Deal with people individually;\
Raise the bar slowly, and\
Hold them accountable.\
Deal with people individually, so they'll embrace it as a personal challenge. Raise the bar slowly, so they won't feel overwhelmed. And hold them accountable, so they take your challenge seriously. . \
When people are presented with a personal challenge, they feel a sense of urgency. When they don\'92t feel overwhelmed, they\'92ll feel more confident. And when they take the challenge seriously, they're going to rise to the occasion. \
But you've got to be very specific and very focused. Pick one or two opportunities that allow for incremental improvement. \
Don't ask someone that's 'below average' to all of a sudden become 'good'. Expect them to become 'average'. And don't ask somebody that's 'average' to become 'great'. Ask them to become 'good'.\
You want your higher standards to feel attainable and you need the person to buy into that higher standard. \
Make it a collaborative effort. Help them plan. Help them think through obstacles and coach them around the roadblocks. Don't just raise the bar and walk away. \
Set some short term goals and commit to timely two way feedback. People tend to rise to positive expectations because they're motivating and they build confidence. So be encouraging and stay positive. \
When you see progress, celebrate it, recognize it and reward it. Then keep raising the bar, but keep it focused, personalized, incremental and keep holding them accountable.\
When you hold people accountable, you\'92re showing them respect. You\'92re showing them that their contributions matter, that you care about them, and that you have confidence in their capabilities. \
Use team settings to recognize everyone\'92s improvement. Don\'92t neglect the average performer that gets better, or the under-performer that becomes average. When someone rises to your expectations, they deserve to be recognized in front of their peers. \
Remember, feedback is the key. A positive feedback loop is critical because it makes incremental improvement feel good, feel worthwhile and it becomes addictive.\
A final point, in order to raise expectations on somebody else, you must first raise expectations on yourself. People will emulate your standards. The standards you hold \'93yourself\'94 accountable to, and the standards you hold \'93them\'94 accountable to. \
You've got to be more hands-on and more specific. You have to give more feedback and coaching. You have to give more of yourself. When you do, your people will respond in kind. \
\'93High standards\'94, \'93positive expectations\'94 and \'93mutual accountability\'94 become self-fulfilling prophecies! You\'92re going to get what you expect and \'93inspect\'94. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 35 \'96 Leading Through Uncertainty \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 When people feel uncertain, their stress \'93increases\'94 and their productivity \'93decreases\'94. \
But here\'92s the problem - these are very uncertain times! So one of the greatest challenges that managers face today is leading through uncertainty. \
There\'92re three types of uncertainty - \'93future\'94, \'93momentary\'94 and \'93hind sight\'94. \
Future uncertainty is caused by questions that can't be answered today.\
Momentary uncertainty is caused by the tough choices that are more immediate. \
And hindsight uncertainty is caused by choices we\'92ve already made. \
People hate uncertainty because it feels dangerous. If you don\'92t know what to expect, don\'92t know what to do, or you\'92re second guessing yourself, you begin to sense danger. \
This sense of danger is a natural human tendency that leaders have to manage. Because uncertainty creates doubt and doubt erodes confidence. \
When people lack confidence, they become unmotivated and take a \'93wait-and-see attitude\'94, and that\'92s why their productivity decreases. \
And when confidence drops, their negative thoughts begin to spiral out of control, and that\'92s why their stress increases. \
In uncertain times, people's minds race across time, bouncing between the past, present and future.\
\'93Did I do the right thing?\'94\
\'93What should I do now?\'94\
\'93What's going to happen?\'94\
When people sense danger, you have to make them feel safer. And here\'92s how you do that - \
Help people prioritize, so they know what's important.\
Help them plan, so they know exactly what to do. (And coach them, so they know \'93how to do it\'94!)\
Give feedback, especially timely feedback, so people know where they stand.\
And express gratitude, so people know that they're valued.\
When people know \'93what's important\'94, \'93what to do\'94, \'93how to do it\'94, \'93where they stand\'94 and \'93how much they're valued\'94; they\'92ll feel safer. And psychological safety is the best antidote for uncertainty. \
It\'92s not easy. It's a constant mental tug of war. Their thoughts of danger are tugging against thoughts of safety. But you can influence their thinking. \
Be honest, be empathetic and be consistent, and people will feel safer. \
Be available, show interest and gratitude, and people will feel safer. \
It takes confidence to lean into uncertainty, and you\'92re the best one to build their confidence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 36 \'96 Quiet Quitting \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A \'93quiet quitter\'94 isn't a flight risk, and they're going to stick around for as long as you let them! \
They're not working hard, and a lot of them work remotely. They're getting a paycheck and other perks, too. And a lot of them have a side-hustle going. Why would they leave? Especially in a recession? \
They see the layoffs happening. They see the hiring freezes. They know offers are drying up and the great resignation is over. \
They've decided to settle in, and ride out the recession by doing just enough to get by, and that's why they're not a flight risk!\
Here's a key point: the work environment \'93you create\'94 enables someone to be a 'quiet quitter'.\
Modest expectations allow people to coast.\
Limited supervision allows them to fly under the radar.\
Limited feedback makes them feel invisible.\
And if they're never held accountable, they get comfortable.\
The fact is, they haven\'92t quietly quit on the company; they\'92ve quietly quit on you! And the only person that can change the work environment is you!\
Now, they didn't disengage overnight, and you're not going to change this overnight, either. Quiet quitters slowly disengage because they're testing the waters. You can help them re-engage by slowly and methodically changing their work environment.\
You can't wave a wand and change six months of progressive disengagement. You've got to help them find their way back to self-motivation, and that's going to take some time.\
Start by giving them a little nudge.\
Raise your expectations a little, but not too much. You want the additional effort that they're considering to feel manageable.\
Then up your engagement a little. Help them set some short-term goals and make them achievable. You don't want them to feel micro-managed, but you want them to know that they're now on your radar. \
Then give immediate feedback and provide as much positive reinforcement as possible. You want them to feel a little success, but you also want them to feel more accountable.\
Then give them another nudge. Raise the bar a little higher, but encourage them to play to their strengths. People like to do things they're good at because it feels good.\
And set positive expectations because those positive expectations build confidence and motivation.\
Then keep giving more positive feedback and reinforcement. One way to do this is by offering a little autonomy. It\'92s a good way of rewarding their re-engagement, and it gives them a positive sense of agency. \
Now they're being noticed, and the accountability feels good! The autonomy gives them a sense of control, and people need that! \
This is the pathway to helping people find self-motivation.\
Quiet quitters have decided that \'93effort\'94 is something to be avoided. But now you're showing them that their \'93discretionary effort\'94 can be very rewarding. This is a subtle way to push people outside of their comfort zone.\
Three key points - \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Behavior change takes time.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}People need a reason to change, and \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}People are a product of their environment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 So take control of the environment, give them reasons to change, and invest the time to get your quiet quitters back on track.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 37 \'96 Flight Risks \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 All your good employees are flight risks because other companies want them, too. Even low performers get job offers, because they interview way better than they work. In fact, that may be why you hired them in the first place!\
Job changes are stressful, but when people lose hope they update their resume and \'93hope\'94 to find something better. \
Hope is the glue that keeps good people engaged. But hope doesn't come easy. Hope is a psychological construct. It\'92s not the simple promise of a promotion or a pay increase. \
Yes, people need something to hope for, and without some meaningful goal or direction, there's nothing worth hoping for!\
But then people have to have a realistic plan, and the more pathways they can see to achieving their goals, the better.\
And people need a sense of agency. They need to feel in control and able to overcome obstacles.\
Without a goal, plan, and a sense of agency, there is no hope! \
So keep this in mind when you're thinking about your key people, and when you're in your one-on-one's, this is where you want to focus.\
Keep their goals front and center, and give equal attention to their \'93performance\'94, \'93professional\'94, and \'93personal goals\'94.\
Then collaborate with them on their plans. Be as flexible as possible, and give them the leeway they need. Coach them around the roadblocks and offer encouragement and positive reinforcement.\
One-on-one's are a good time to reflect on progress, which can build confidence and it's a good time to remind people of their strengths.\
Five minutes of prep work before your one-on-ones will pay huge dividends, especially with your flight risks. It's easy to come into these sessions running hot. You're racing from meeting to meeting, and prep time is hard to come by. I get it. But make the time!\
When people are uncertain about their goals, plans, and abilities, they\'92re going to sense danger, and they're going to lose hope. And other companies are selling them hopeful thoughts.\
Think about the people you're interviewing right now. You're selling them \'93hope\'94. You\'92re explaining how their strengths can be applied in your world to achieve \'93their goals\'94. You're recruiting them by selling \'93hope\'94.\
You need to make that same approach a routine part of your discussions with every valuable employee, but you can\'92t be disingenuous. People don\'92t quit companies; they quit on bosses! \
People want a boss to be trustworthy, empathetic and consistent, and if they question any of those virtues in you - they\'92re going to lose hope. \
You can\'92t always give the promotion or pay increase that people want, and in the short term their goal may seem unachievable. Their plans may seem unrealistic, and they may lose a sense of agency. I get it! \
You\'92re asking people to take a risk, and to put their faith in you. And the only way they\'92re going to do that is if they trust you, think you care about them, and view you as being consistent. \
Changing jobs is risky, too! They have to put their trust in someone else. They know you, so you have an advantage! And if your relationship is built on trust, empathy and consistency, you\'92ve got a \'93big advantage\'94!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 38 \'96 Pep Talks \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A good pep talk isn\'92t what you might think. Movies depict pep talks that are passionate, emotional and eloquent. That may work in Hollywood, but it rarely works in business! \
When people experience a major setback, or they\'92re not getting the results they want; they get frustrated, lose confidence, and become demotivated, and that\'92s not a winning mindset! \
You can pump people up with encouragement and positive thinking, but that won\'92t last for long. It\'92s like a sugar high. It might feel good in the moment, but it wears off fast and then people crash back into reality. \
These are \'93empty pep talks\'94, because they lack the essential psychological nutrients needed to get people back on track. You\'92re just feeding people empty calories full of psychological sugars and fats. \
In fact, an empty pep-talk does more damage than good! \
Here\'92s the pre-pep talk reality - people are uncertain and worried about their self-interests. They lack direction and are struggling to make sense of things. They\'92re lost! But that\'92s where you come in. \
A good pep-talk gives \'93meaningful direction\'94 that reduces uncertainty and uses empathetic language that addresses their self-interests. These are the essential psychological nutrients that a good pep talk must include. \
Without meaningful direction, your enthusiasm and optimism just confuses people. \
Meaningful direction explains not just \'93what to do\'94, but \'93how to do it\'94! It\'92s clear and immediately actionable. \
For your directions to be meaningful, you have to explain the importance and reasons behind your direction. They have to know \'93what to do\'94, \'93how to do it\'94, and \'93why they\'92re doing it\'94. \
You have to explain your confidence in their abilities. You can\'92t just say, \'93I know you can do it!\'94 You have to explain \'93why they can do it\'94. \
A retired four-star general, Stanley McChrystal\'97who oversaw special operations in Iraq and Afghanistan\'97sums it up this way:\
\'93Here\'92s what I\'92m asking you to do. . . Here\'92s why it\'92s important. . . Here\'92s why I know you can do it. . . Now let\'92s go and do it!\'94\
They don\'92t need a \'93rah-rah speech\'94! You don\'92t have to be passionate, emotional or eloquent. Your pep talk can be very matter-of-fact. \
Your tone should be empathetic, measured and direct. Set the emotions aside, and present a rational case for action. \
Just follow this simple formula-\
Give meaningful direction.\
Use empathetic language.\
And give people a reason to act.\
Good pep talks take skill to deliver, so you\'92ll have to practice. \
You can mentally rehearse your pep talks, and a good way to practice is on yourself! When you\'92re facing an uphill battle, your self-talk is key. Just think of yourself in the 3rd person, use empathetic language and offer yourself some meaningful direction. \
Everybody\'92s situation is different, so you have to tailor your pep talk to the individual. \
Then evaluate your pep talks after the fact. Don\'92t expect an immediate reaction, but focus on what happens next. \
You can\'92t just give one pep talk. Good pep talks are actually a series of messages that include timely feedback and positive reinforcement. \
Remember, when people are lost, they don\'92t need an empty pep talk or a \'93rah-rah speech\'94. They need meaningful direction, empathetic language and a reason to act!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 39 \'96 The Performance review Challenge \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Performance reviews are some of the most stressful conversations of the year. No one likes being judged (and no one likes passing judgment)! So everyone gets uncomfortable! Even your more positive reviews can be a challenge, and here\'92s why. \
Most companies follow the same review process, and they tie \'93performance evaluations\'94 and \'93merit increases\'94 together. You\'92ll be asked to rate each employee into a performance category, and that category will determine the merit increase you can give. (You don\'92t get much latitude! )\
There are two common disconnects you can anticipate.\
You give a very positive review, but can only give a modest pay increase. Or\
You have to give a really good employee a 'meets expectations' rating.\
We call them 'disconnects' because the employee is caught off guard. They're disappointed because they expected something more.\
Here's the challenge: Inflation is still around 5%, and the average bonus payout for most companies is going to be about 3%. You might be able to give your top performers a 4 to 5% increase, and that's going to be disappointing.\
When you tell someone who's been getting good feedback that they're 'meeting expectations', they're going to be disappointed too, because they've worked really hard and they interpret a 'meets expectations' rating as being 'average', 'acceptable', or just good enough.\
The only way to avoid this is to manage expectations upfront, and you want to do it in a team setting. If the average merit increase is going to be 3 to 4%, everyone needs to hear it at the same time. \
You can expect the group to be disappointed, so let them vent and process that news together. You need to empathize and acknowledge the group's emotion. You're not asking the group to celebrate the news, and don't try to sell it as good news. \
When bad news applies to a group, let the group cope together and let them cope proactively. Bad news always gets delivered, and when it trickles out, people cope reactively and emotionally, and you just prolong the pain.\
If most of your people are going to fall in the 'meets expectations' category, you've got to frame that rating in a more positive way than just being \'93good enough\'94. \
Acknowledge how hard people have worked and how appreciative you are, and the value you place on people that meet your high expectations. \
When you manage these expectations up front, people can prepare, and when you meet one-on-one, you're going to have much more productive discussions.\
When you schedule all your reviews, start with your high performers first. And start with the people getting the higher end of the merit increases first.\
People are going to talk, and you want your top performers talking first. They're the standards you want the rest of the group to shoot for, and you want them influencing the post review narrative. \
Try to schedule your reviews earlier in the day, when people have more psychological energy; and set aside plenty of time because you don\'92t want to cut the conversation short. \
You have to prepare in advance! And the best way to prepare is by giving constant, consistent and timely feedback \'93throughout the year\'94. The best way to support your evaluation is by referencing the feedback that your employee has already heard. \
Consider breaking the performance review into two separate meetings. Use the first discussion to focus on their review and merit increase, and the second discussion to set goals and discuss plans for the upcoming year. \
This \'93follow-up discussion\'94 is critical! And you should prepare for them in advance, as well. This is when you offer resources, guidance and training opportunities that support their growth. \
The best performance reviews are 2-way conversations. You have to listen and be willing to accept their feedback. You can empathize with them, but don\'92t back peddle. \
Remember - each performance review that you deliver is also a reflection of you! Their performance is your responsibility! You own their performance, so you\'92re actually reviewing a joint outcome. \
When the review cycle is over, managers tend to breath a sigh of relief, but performance management isn\'92t an annual event! It needs to be an ongoing process! When your feedback and coaching is part of your normal routine, the annual performance review becomes much less stressful for everyone.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 40 \'96 The Grit Reflex \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \'93Grit\'94 is a personality trait that can be nurtured. It's the gravitational force that pulls you through tough times. \
Grit requires resilience and focus so you can bounce back and stay the course. It's a vital life skill and a vital professional skill. But it takes practice.\
Here are 4 things that gritty people have in common - \
They take pride in being gritty;\
They have gritty friends;\
They anticipate setbacks; and\
They have what we call the \'93grit reflex\'94. \
The \'93grit reflex\'94 is a mindset that helps people rise up and meet challenging situations. The fact is, gritty people think differently. \
They view adversity as normal, isolated, and temporary. To them, adversity is an unavoidable sign of progress.\
When facing adversity, they think of themself in the \'93third-person\'94 so they can set aside their emotions and think more rationally.\
They're self-compassionate. They don't beat themselves up. And they view setbacks as learning opportunities.\
They don't fixate on potential worst case scenarios. They focus on what's right in front of them.\
They don't look for quick fixes. They plan for patient, incremental recovery. They set short-term milestones and focus on making daily progress.\
They place a high value on the input and support from their gritty friends.\
For the lucky few, these reflexes come naturally, but anybody can adopt these best practices.\
To develop the grit reflex, you've got to commit to it, and be willing to hold yourself accountable to this higher psychological standard. \
Then tighten your circle and surround yourself with gritty people.\
Whatever your goals, anticipate and plan for setbacks in advance. \
When adversity strikes, view it as an opportunity to eliminate an obstacle and get one step closer to your goal. \
Step back, take a deep breath, and think of yourself in the third-person, like you're watching yourself in a three-act play. \
Remember, all stories have three parts - The \'93setup\'94, the \'93confrontation\'94, and the \'93resolution\'94. \
Think of yourself as the protagonist, the story's hero! And now you\'92re in \'93act 2\'94 - confronting the adversity. How would the hero think! And what would they do? \
You\'92re in control! How do you want \'93Act 3\'94 to play out? You can choose, but you have to hold yourself to that higher psychological standard. \
When adversity strikes, (and it will), you have a choice. You can suffer through it, be a victim, and accept what comes your way. Or you can practice the grit reflex and rise to the occasion.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 41 \'96 How To Combat Groupthink\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Groupthink happens when consensus becomes more important than correctness. \
The American Psychological Association defines groupthink as \'93a strong concurrence-seeking tendency that interferes with effective group decision-making\'94. \
A good example is BlackBerry. Remember them? They used to dominate the mobile device market for business, but they lost it all to Android and Apple because they all agreed that consumer-oriented \'93apps\'94 would never be allowed on business devices. \
A form of groupthink is what psychologists call the \'93Abilene Paradox\'94, which occurs when everyone in the group publicly agrees on a decision because they think it\'92s what the rest of the group wants, even though privately, they disagree and would prefer to take a different course of action. \
There are a lot of things that can cause groupthink and the Abilene Paradox. Things like - \
A successful leader that no one wants to disagree with; a friendly team wanting to maintain harmony; or a simple lack of diversity and outside perspectives. \
Stress can cause groupthink, too. It feels safer when everyone\'92s bought in, because it\'92s harder to assign blame. And when you\'92re under time pressure, it\'92s easier to just go with the crowd. \
Let's say you work in a company like this and you want to help avoid groupthink. What do you do?\
You have to promote what\'92s known as \'93constructive conflict\'94.\
\'93Constructive conflict\'94 refers to a type of disagreement or conflict that is managed and handled in a positive way. It\'92s when people have different ideas or opinions, but instead of causing harm or negative feelings, these differences are used as an opportunity to learn, grow, and improve. It involves open communication, understanding each other\'92s viewpoints, and working together to find a solution that benefits everyone involved.\
Here\'92s how you do it. \
If you're in a meeting, keep your ideas to yourself until you hear what everyone else has to say. That way you won't influence what people are thinking.\
You should encourage disagreement. In fact, when consensus comes too easily, you should assume there's groupthink. And you can say something like: "We're missing something. What is it?"\
You can invite outsiders into your meetings and ask their opinions because they\'92re not worried about hurting feelings, they don't care about your sacred cows, and they can see things the group may miss.\
And appoint a \'93devil's advocate\'94, someone that can shoot holes in the group's assumptions, present counterarguments, and think through unintended consequences.\
We once worked with a CEO who would tell her executive team, "I want to debate this, who has a different view?"\
If no one spoke up she'd say, "Okay. I want someone to be the contrarian and poke holes in this. Who\'92s it gonna be?\'94\
Usually, people would start to speak up, but if they didn't, \'93she\'92d\'94 be the contrarian, and she\'92d play the devil's advocate herself.\
Reaching consensus is the hardest way to make a decision because you need a high-functioning team to do so. \
If the team doesn't work well together, you're going to have a slow decision based on groupthink, and the group may even agree on the wrong decision.\
So, consensus is a \'93nice-to-have\'94. It\'92s not a \'93must-have\'94. If you've got a high-functioning team and they reach consensus, that's great, because they're more likely to own the decision. \
But the real challenge is living with differences. That's what diversity is all about. Different ideas, opinions and, priorities.\
When you ask people to reach consensus, there's going to be winners and losers. \
Every team has their alphas and there's always a pecking order. Some opinions carry more weight and the loudest voices and strongest personalities tend to prevail. So people will \'93go along to get along\'94.\
So instead of consensus, focus on commitment. The fact is, teams often reach consensus but aren\'92t committed to see the decision through. \
When it\'92s okay to disagree, you're acknowledging the differences and celebrating diversity. Everyone had a say and everyone feels heard.\
There are different ways to make a decision. You can own the decision but seek everyone\'92s input. And when you do, you tend to get more honest input. \
Here\'92s what you might say to your team - "I'm going to make this decision and I want to hear what everyone has to say. I'd like to reach consensus, but I'd rather get this decision right. So I need to know what each of you think - what each of you really think. Now, I expect some differences and think that's good, so don't hold back. But whatever I decide, I'm going to ask for your commitment. Is that fair?"\
When you do that, you put everyone on the same footing. If you've got a healthy team dynamic - great. But this works even if you don't. It works with ad hoc teams, cross-functional teams and even dysfunctional teams. So give it a try. \
And remember, \'93commitment\'94 is more important than \'93consensus\'94.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 42 \'96 1-Minute Monolog \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 When an actor auditions for a role, they\'92re asked to deliver a 1-minute monologue. And that\'92s all the time you\'92re going to have when delivering important leadership messages. \
The average human attention span is about 8 seconds. That\'92s it! And people have very limited working memories. They can only juggle about 7 chunks of information at a time. \
So like an actor auditioning for a role, you\'92ll want your performance to grab attention and to stay top of mind. \
Think of your most important leadership messages as a performance. You\'92re not an actor, but in order to influence thought and behavior, your delivery has to be really good! \
Actors rehearse their 1-minute monologues and so should you. \
Mental rehearsals are nearly as effective as physical practice, so visualize yourself delivering the message, and keep an eye on your time. Remember - less is more!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 43 \'96 Meeting Madness \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Managers now average 23 hours a week in meetings, up from 10 hours in the 1960s. Companies are trying to promote a more collaborative culture, but it\'92s actually hurting employee productivity. \
So, when it comes to meetings - \'93less is more!\'94\
\'95 Less meetings;\
\'95 Less people attending; \
\'95 And less time in the meeting. \
Ted-Talks are limited to 18-minutes, because that\'92s the outer limit of an adult's attention span; and the ideal meeting size is between 5 to 8 participants.\
\'95 So cut every meeting in half; \
\'95 Make weekly meetings bi-weekly;\
\'95 Only invite people that really need to be there; \
\'95 Make some meetings optional; \
\'95 And never call a meeting that can be done through chat. \
If you do that, the meetings you conduct will be much more productive; people will know they\'92re important; and who knows? They may even look forward to them!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 44 \'96 The Sculptors Chisel \
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \'93Conflict\'94 is like a \'93sculptor\'92s chisel\'94. It can create something of value or break things apart. It can shape and refine ideas, relationships, and solutions; or it can do the exact opposite. Conflict can reveal deeper insights and foster growth, or it can stifle learning, diversity, and teamwork. \
\
Like it or not, you\'92re a sculptor. You\'92re here to shape teams, chip away at problems, and create value. So you must embrace conflict. You can\'92t avoid it. When you avoid conflict, it is still there, it\'92s just unspoken, and it creates resentment, dissension, and disengagement. \
\
So don\'92t think of conflict as something to be avoided. You have to embrace it. Like the sculptor\'92s chisel, it\'92s an invaluable tool, but it takes skill and practice. So think like a sculptor, pick up that chisel, and get to work!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 45 \'96 Conflict And Cooking \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Groupthink is like cooking the same meal over and over and never \'93taste testing\'94. You can add too much salt to a dish without thinking about balance or flavor. It leads to poor decisions and an unpalatable outcome.\
The opposite of groupthink is \'93constructive conflict.\'94 It\'92s like a well-prepared meal where the chefs talk openly about their different ideas in a respectful way. Just as blending various ingredients can create a rich and flavorful meal, constructive conflict helps people think creatively, understand different points of view, and usually leads to better decisions.\
Constructive conflict should be a key ingredient in setting goals, planning, making decisions, or solving problems. However, it\'92s not always easy, just like preparing a complex meal. Sometimes people need encouragement to speak up and not just follow the recipe. Like a master chef who experiments and tastes as they cook, embracing constructive conflict can lead to more satisfying and successful results.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 46 \'96 Blackberry \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Do you remember BlackBerry? \
BlackBerry once dominated the mobile device market with its business-focused phones. But groupthink within the company led to its downfall. They agreed to stick with what worked before, ignoring changes in technology and customer wants. They resisted new ideas like touchscreen technology, believing their keyboard design was best and that consumer apps would never be allowed on business devices and this caused them to fall behind competitors like Apple and Android, who understood what people wanted. \
BlackBerry\'92s failure to adapt and innovate made them lose customers, and their reputation suffered. Blackberry is just one example of a highly successful business that suffered from groupthink. So remember - Groupthink stifles innovation and leads to complacency. It is the silence of dissenting voices that often precedes the downfall of great endeavors.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 47 \'96 How To Coach Constructive Conflict \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Here are 7 ways to promote constructive conflict: \
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 1.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Tell the team that it\'92s okay to have different opinions and make sure they know how to disagree without being disagreeable. \
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 2.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Let everyone know that their ideas are welcome. Ask questions that make people think, and listen to what they say.\
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 3.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Make sure people feel respected, even if they think differently.\
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 4.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Bring in someone with a different point of view or appoint a devil\'92s advocate. They might see things in a way that no one else does. \
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 5.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Don\'92t rush decisions. Give people time to think things through. \
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 6.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 After a decision, talk about how it went. Did everyone get to speak? Was the choice a good one? And\'85\
\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 7.\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0 Be a role model and show the team how to disagree in a good way. If they see you do it, they\'92ll learn how to do it too.\
Remember - if you don\'92t promote constructive conflict, people are going to just go along to get along.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 48 \'96 Group Think Red Flags \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Here are 8 \'93red flags\'94 that can lead to groupthink: \
1. An opinionated leader; \
2. A close-knit team with similar backgrounds and perspectives;\
3. A consensus-oriented culture;\
4. Teams that are isolated from outside opinions and perspectives;\
5. Teams under intense pressure to make decisions, especially if they are rushing to meet a tight deadline;\
6. An unstructured process for making decisions that encourages diverse opinions and critical analysis;\
7. A cliquish culture where members are afraid to voice dissenting opinions, and\'85\
8. Successful, overly confident teams may not fully analyze all available options or consider potential risks.\
You can manage these red flags by actively encouraging open dialogue, diverse opinions, and critical thinking. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 49 - The Abilene Paradox
\f1\b0  \
Imagine a group of people collectively deciding on a course of action that none of them really wants. This is the Abilene Paradox. \
Picture a family agreeing to drive to Abilene for dinner. Nobody wants to go, but they all think that the others do. They agree to avoid conflict. After an unenjoyable trip, they return home and discover that no one wanted to go in the first place. Each person feared opposing the others, assuming they had strong preferences. The result? An unnecessary, unsatisfying experience. \
The Abilene Paradox isn\'92t just about dinner plans. It happens in workplaces and social groups when people don\'92t communicate their true feelings or beliefs. They go along with the group, even when it\'92s contrary to what they want, often leading to unproductive or frustrating outcomes. \
So the next time you find yourself in a group, remember the Abilene Paradox. Don\'92t just go along with the crowd. Voice your true opinion. Open communication and the courage to speak up can prevent a metaphorical trip to Abilene and lead to better, more satisfying decisions. \

\f0\b Episode 50 - Pep Talks
\f1\b0  \
People get frustrated and loose confidence when things don\'92t go their way. Trying to pump them up with empty encouragement wont help for long. It\'92s like a sugar high that crashes quickly. \
A good pep talk provides meaningful direction. Don\'92t just cheerlead! Explain clearly what to do, how to do it and why they are doing it. Show that you believe in them, and don\'92t just say it. \
Explain why they can do it. Your tone shouldn\'92t be overly emotional. Be empathetic, measured and direct. Think of pep talks like this \'96 \
\'95 Here\'92s what I\'92m asking you to do\'85\
\'95 Here\'92s why it\'92s important\'85\
\'95 Here\'92s why I know you can do it\'85\
\'95 Now, let\'92s go and do it! \
Remember, good pep talks aren\'92t just a one-time thing. They\'92re a series of messages with feedback and positive reinforcement. And they take practice. Focus on meaningful direction, empathetic language, and giving people a reason to act. That\'92s how you truly motivate and lead. It\'92s not about empty words. It\'92s about real guidance and understanding. \

\f0\b Episode 51 - Sailing Through Change
\f1\b0  \
Dealing with change is like being a sailor fighting against the wind. If the wind\'92s against you, don\'92t push back; just shift your sails and go with it. Use what seems to be working against you to your advantage.\
It\'92s kind of like zigzagging in a sailboat to move against the wind. You\'92ve got to be flexible, quick on your feet, and smart enough to turn problems into opportunities. It\'92s never a straight path, and it\'92s rarely a breeze.\
A good captain doesn\'92t fight the wind; they work with it. In the same way, a leader who\'92s managing change doesn\'92t wrestle with problems; she sees them coming and uses them to her advantage, steering the team where they need to go.\
It takes guts to go against the wind, and the smarts to see change as something you can use, not just something in your way. That\'92s what moves us forward.\
Change isn\'92t something to be scared of; it\'92s like the wind pushing us to new places. We just have to be wise enough to steer the right course.\

\f0\b Episode 52 - Reactance to Change \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 \'93Reactance\'94 is like that feeling you get when someone tells you what to do, and you just want to do the opposite. It\'92s a natural reaction when people feel like their choices are being taken away. \
Let\'92s say your boss introduces a new rule or process without any warning or explanation. It might feel like you\'92re being ordered around, and that natural urge to resist kicks in. That\'92s reactance in action.\
If workers feel like they\'92re being told what to do without any say in the matter, they might push back against the new ideas. It\'92s not that they don\'92t want to help or that they\'92re being stubborn; they just don\'92t like feeling controlled.\
The trick to avoiding this is to include them in the process. If workers understand why a change is needed and have a say in how it happens, that urge to resist can turn into a willingness to help. It\'92s all about making people feel like they\'92re part of the change, not just being told what to do. That way, reactance doesn\'92t have to be a roadblock; it can be something you work with, not against.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 53 - Change and the 4 Basic Needs
\f1\b0  \
Do you know how sometimes change can feel a bit scary or annoying? Well, a lot of that comes down to four basic things we all need. First, there\'92s Certainty. We like to know what\'92s going on, and if something new pops up, it can feel unsettling. Then there\'92s Variety. Sure, we need some excitement, but too much change too fast? That can be overwhelming.\
Now, Connection is about our relationships with others. Change that messes with our team or friends at work? No wonder we might push back. And finally, there\'92s Significance. We all want to feel valued. If change makes us feel less important, we might not like it.\
So next time there\'92s a big change at work, think about these four needs - Certainty, Variety, Connection, and Significance. \
Understanding them can make change feel less like a challenge and more like a chance to grow. It\'92s all about finding the balance and working together.\

\f0\b Episode 54 - Change Management Pitfalls
\f1\b0  \
When implementing changes, managers often stumble across pitfalls that can hinder success. \
A frequent mistake is the lack of clear communication, leading to confusion among team members. Ignoring employee concerns can create disengagement, while insufficient planning causes chaos. \
Failing to build buy-in from team members leads to resistance, and inconsistency in leadership creates uncertainty. \
Managers must also recognize the resource needs of the change process. Overlooking time, money, or support can result in significant delays. \
Equally important is aligning changes with the organizational culture to avoid clashes. Expecting immediate results is unrealistic, as patience and persistence are often needed for meaningful change. \
Finally, neglecting follow-up and evaluation can prevent lasting success. By understanding these common mistakes and navigating them wisely, managers can create a smooth and effective change process that fosters growth and innovation.\

\f0\b Episode 55 - Change Best Practices
\f1\b0  \
A front-line manager can ease their team into an unwanted change by first understanding the change and then communicating it clearly. Explain why it\'92s happening and what it means for everyone. Open the floor to their concerns, listening with empathy, and acknowledging their feelings.\
If possible, get team members involved in some decision-making, giving them a sense of control. Provide support like training or resources they might need, and make it known that you\'92re there for them.\
Keep tabs on how the change is going and be ready to adjust things if needed. Regular check-ins can make the transition smoother.\
Celebrate even small wins along the way, keeping the mood positive. Your own attitude matters a lot too, so show the team that you\'92re on board with the change, even if it\'92s tough.\
The main idea is to be clear, caring, and supportive. This can make the team feel understood and part of the process, turning something unwanted into a shared journey. By working together and staying open to their feelings, a manager can help the team accept and even embrace the change.\

\f0\b Episode 56 - Your Three Brains
\f1\b0  \
So, imagine your brain is like a group of three close pals working together in a team. At the front, you have the rational brain, which is like the thoughtful friend who\'92s always planning and making decisions. When you\'92re wondering if it\'92s a good idea to take that job or what you should make for dinner, that\'92s this guy chiming in.\
Now, smack in the middle, there\'92s the emotional brain. Picture it as the heart of the group, reacting to things with all sorts of feelings. It\'92s like that buddy who\'92s always expressive, whether cheering at a fun surprise or getting teary during a heartfelt movie.\
Tucked deeper inside is the habitual brain. This one\'92s all about the routines. It\'92s like that dependable friend who knows your favorite stories by heart. You know when you\'92re driving home and suddenly you\'92re there, but don\'92t remember every turn? That\'92s because this pal took the lead.\
All in all, your brain\'92s like this trio of friends: one thinks, one feels, and one gets stuff done out of habit. They all pitch in, making your day run smoothly. Cool, right?\

\f0\b Episode 57 - Self-talk\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Self-talk is our inner voice, the constant chatter inside our minds. Studies suggest we have between 6,000 to 70,000 thoughts a day when we\'92re coaching, criticizing, or comforting ourselves, and this self-talk greatly influences how we feel and act. \
When the voice is positive, we feel good, focused, and ready to tackle challenges. When it\'92s negative, we can become doubtful, anxious, or demotivated. \
The best self-talk is neutral and non-emotional. It\'92s fact-based. It\'92s neither positive nor negative - it\'92s neutral. \
Self-talk is like having a tiny coach or critic on our shoulder all the time. It deeply affects our self-esteem, decision-making, and overall perspective on life. \
Positive or neutral self-talk can boost confidence and motivate us to overcome obstacles, while negative self-talk can hinder our progress and dampen our spirits. \
Recognizing the power of this voice is crucial. If you can manage your self-talk, you can manage your day and anything that comes your way. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 58 - Imaginary Stress\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Most of the stress we experience is needless. A study at Penn State University found that only 8% of the things we worry about ever come true. This type of stress is referred to as \'93imaginary stress\'94, and it activates the same stress response systems in the body as real-life stressors. \
This is all caused by something known as the \'93negativity bias.\'94 It means we\'92re more likely to remember and pay attention to negative experiences than neutral or positive ones. This bias helped our ancestors survive, as being alert to possible dangers was often a matter of life or death.\
But in modern times, this negativity bias leads to imaginary stress. Instead of immediate threats like predators, we now anticipate future challenges: deadlines, unpleasant conversations, and other potential sources of stress. Our minds exaggerate these potential problems due to the negativity bias, causing us to overestimate their impact.\
If you\'92ve worried about something that never happened or wasn\'92t near as bad as you feared, you\'92ve suffered from imaginary stress.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 59 - Mental Time Travel\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Mental time travel is a blessing and a curse because our memories aren\'92t perfect video recordings. Every time we recall an event, it\'92s like we\'92re telling a story, and stories can change with each telling. Details might blur, get exaggerated, or even forgotten. This means the past we remember might not be 100% accurate.\
Secondly, when we think about the future, our predictions are based on our past experiences and present beliefs. We might overestimate how good or bad a situation will be, leading to unrealistic fears or hopes.\
Thirdly, constantly dwelling on past regrets or stressing about future uncertainties can be mentally draining. It might even contribute to mood disorders like anxiety and depression. It\'92s easy to get stuck in a loop of \'93what ifs\'94 and \'93if onlys.\'94 \
Lastly, mental time travel can pull us out of the present moment. If we\'92re always thinking about yesterday or tomorrow, we might miss out on the joys and experiences of today. Finding a balance between remembering, planning, and living in the moment is crucial.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 60 - Neutral Thinking
\f1\b0  \
Imagine you\'92re driving to work. Positive thinking is hoping for no traffic. Negative thinking expects traffic. But \'93neutral thinking\'94, Trevor Moawad\'92s idea, is like focusing on driving well, no matter the traffic condition.\
Neutral thinking is about looking at things just as they are, without added drama. Instead of just hoping for the best or fearing the worst, you look at facts and react to them. It\'92s not about being overly optimistic or pessimistic; it\'92s about being realistic and action-focused.\
Say you didn\'92t do well on a test. Instead of saying \'93I\'92m terrible at this\'94 or \'93I\'92ll ace it next time\'94, neutral thinking would be: \'93I got these questions wrong. Let\'92s learn and prepare better for the next one.\'94\
Trevor believes this approach helps athletes and people succeed. It\'92s about understanding what went wrong, making a plan, and taking action. Instead of getting stuck in emotions, you deal with situations head-on, step by step.\
No drama, just action.\

\f0\b Episode 61 - The 90-Second Rule
\f1\b0  \
The 90-second rule is about how our emotions work. When something happens that makes us feel a certain way, our body releases chemicals that cause this feeling. These chemicals only last for about 90 seconds. This means if you feel upset, angry, or any strong emotion, the intense feeling itself will naturally go away after roughly 90 seconds.\
After those 90 seconds, if you still feel that way, it\'92s usually because you\'92re thinking about it and keeping the emotion alive in your mind. In other words, after the first minute and a half, if you\'92re still feeling strong emotions, it\'92s often because of your own thoughts.\
So, the trick is to remember that strong feelings will fade after 90 seconds unless we fuel them with our thoughts. By understanding this, we can give ourselves a short pause when something bothers us. After waiting a bit, we might find it easier to choose how we want to react, instead of just acting on impulse.\
This rule reminds us that we have more control over our feelings than we might believe. By waiting for the initial rush to pass, we can make better decisions about how to handle things.\

\f0\b Episode 62 - Law of Reverse Effort\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 The Law of Reverse Effort is a concept from Emile Cou\'e9. It means that sometimes when we try really hard to do something, it backfires and we don\'92t succeed.\
Imagine being told not to think about a pink elephant. The harder you try not to, the more you end up thinking about it. \
The same thing happens in sports. If a player thinks too much about not missing a goal, they might end up missing it. \
This happens because our brain gets stuck on that thought. It\'92s like when you\'92re told not to touch something; suddenly, you really want to touch it. \
This law tells us that sometimes it\'92s better to relax and not overthink things. Pushing ourselves too hard can be the problem. It\'92s not about giving up or being lazy. It\'92s about finding a balance. \
When we\'92re calm and trust ourselves, we often do better. So, in some cases, the trick to success might be to stop trying so hard to control everything and just let things flow naturally.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Episode 63 \'96 The Law of Substitution
\f1\b0  \
Imagine your mind is like a movie theater, and you\'92re the director. At any moment, there\'92s only one movie playing on the big screen. Now, the \'93Law of Substitution\'94 is a cool trick you can use to control what\'92s showing.\
Basically, this law says that you can\'92t think of two things at the same time. So, if a negative or scary movie starts playing in your mind, you have the power to switch it out for a happier or calmer one.\
Let\'92s say you\'92re nervous about speaking in front of your team. Instead of replaying scenes people pushing back, you can switch that movie with one where you\'92re confidently sharing your ideas and your team is listening intently.\
Every time the worrisome movie tries to play, press \'91pause\'92, and choose to replay the positive one. The more you practice this, the better you\'92ll get at controlling the movies in your mind.\
So, the \'93Law of Substitution\'94 is like having a remote control for your thoughts. Don\'92t like what\'92s playing? Change the channel to something better!\

\f0\b Episode 64 - Thinking Breaks
\f1\b0  \
Imagine your brain is like a busy train station. Trains come and go, carrying loads of thoughts, plans, worries, and memories. Sometimes, it gets so crowded that trains get stuck, and everything becomes a noisy jumble. That\'92s when we feel stressed, tired, or overwhelmed.\
Now, what if every once in a while, we paused all the trains, letting the station clear out and become quiet? That\'92s what a \'93thinking break\'94 is - giving your brain a moment of peace, like a mini-vacation.\
Just like resting your legs after a long walk, giving your brain a break helps it recover. You\'92ll think clearer and feel more energized.\
When the station is less crowded, it\'92s easier to see where each train should go. Similarly, with a clearer mind, we can make better choices.\
Ever noticed how ideas pop up when you\'92re relaxed? When the brain isn\'92t overloaded, it can come up with new and creative solutions, and giving your mind time to rest reduces stress and helps you feel calmer.\
So, every once in a while, remember to give your brain a little break. It deserves it!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29 \cf2 Episode 65 - Worry Breaks\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb100\sa100\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A worry break is when you set aside a special time just to let yourself think about whatever\'92s bothering you. Instead of letting worries pop up all the time, you choose a specific time to deal with them. It\'92s a bit like scheduling a meeting with your worries.\
When you give yourself a set time to worry, you can approach those worries with a clearer head. Often, you\'92ll see that what you were fretting about might not be as big a deal as you thought.\
By deciding when you\'92ll worry, you start to feel more in charge of your thoughts, rather than letting them take over anytime they want.\
If you\'92re not constantly distracted by worries, you can focus better on what you\'92re doing, whether that\'92s work, reading, or just enjoying a movie, and knowing there\'92s a time to handle your worries can help keep stress levels down during the rest of the day.\
Once you get the hang of it, you might find you\'92re not lying awake at night with worries buzzing around in your head.\
So, in a nutshell, scheduling a little \'93worry time\'94 can make the rest of your day a lot smoother and more enjoyable.\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}